[00:00:00]
>> First of all, prepare that video presentation up front. Please do that, please try it just once. I promise you, it will be worth it. It's one of the best pieces of advice in my opinion at this entire course. So definitely give it a go. Second, brainstorm those objections and possible answers, right?

[00:00:17]
So what people likely to come back with, and what are they likely to ask you and try and preempt those, if possible. Attempt to speak to those stakeholders individually before you present to the group, so you can appeal to their selfish gene and whatever it is that they're trying to achieve.

[00:00:34]
When you're presenting, heavily reference that previous work that you've done. Gather some structured feedback, after the presentation not during but keep that for afterwards. And then finally channel all that feedback via you and challenge anything that you disagree with. Have a conversation around it, don't feel you need to blindly accept every piece of feedback that you receive.

[00:01:01]
So that's it, that's how to do your design presentation and hopefully that's helpful. Are there any questions around that before we move into our final session? I was right.
>> Makes this all very clear. And it seems so obvious once you hear it, yet I don't do any of those things.

[00:01:20]
I think this is gonna change my life and the life of my clients.
>> Yeah. That is so sweet. Thank you so much whoever said that, that is hugely appreciated. That's the trouble, I teach common sense in some ways. But when you're in the middle of a project, common sense goes out of the window.

[00:01:39]
You have to be really disciplined to remember and do all these things. That's why I've produced the checklist screens that you've got here, so that you've got that nice summary that you can go, okay, have I done everything, have I prepared for this properly. Cuz there's nothing worse than being blindsided in the presentation or dealing with design.

[00:01:58]
Cuz what happens is you end up looking like you'll bssing. Somebody will come back and say, yeah, so I really think this needs to be this way or that way in the design and you come up with some reason why this isn't, it just feels like you're making it up as you go along.

[00:02:14]
Well, if you've kind of talked them through this process and you justify, you sound in control and confidence is a big part of this, right? It's coming across as confident without coming across as arrogant. And that does take practice to get right. But yeah, I went off on one then, and I really.

