[00:00:00]
>> So with that, I really wanna just leave you with a final checklist, we're really are wrapping up now. So I wanna kind of run through some of the key findings that we talked about today, the key things that I would encourage you to do. And there were a variety of different things.

[00:00:20]
This whole idea of meshing design and developing them closely together is quite an important one, really. Cuz it's kind of fundamental to your success going forward to get that working relationship right between the two. That whole thing about never showing the design to your client without first showing it to your developer, really important as well.

[00:00:44]
Again, it's about ensuring that the designs you're producing are practical and appropriate within the constraints that you're working within. I would recommend, basically creating a simple design system for any design that you work on. Work with components within things like Figma and stuff like that so that you make your own life easier as you tweak, and improve, and change the design, even if you get into feedback territory.

[00:01:12]
So for example, when I produce a design in Figma, because I'm using components. When I do some testing, I've just done with usability testing and they turn around and say it performed worse than the existing version. It's not the end of the world, because I can implement their recommended changes really easily across the whole of my prototype, because it's all built with components.

[00:01:36]
That will be so much more difficult, I had to go through every single screen and change it, it's just common sense. Yeah, and if you're gonna get onto bigger sites and definitely build a more robust design system, one that integrates with your code design system as well, that's definitely worth doing.

[00:01:54]
And then start talking about post-launch optimization right at the very beginning of the project. Make sure it's built into your timelines, because it is the most valuable stage from a design point of view. And then finally, work on that site optimization through that ongoing cycle of identifying problem pages.

[00:02:14]
Identifying the problem on the page, form a hypothesis about how you could fix it, and come up with some different solutions. Test those solutions, roll them out, rinse and repeat, simple as that.

