[00:00:00]
>> Jem: Let's talk about automated deployments. So we're stepping away from containers now. We're talking about automating a standard server, just like a server we brought up. There are better ways to do it. So instead of going through step one, we did this, step two, we did this, step three.

[00:00:13]
And it's kind of tedious. If you're thinking there has to be a better way, there is. We did it by hand because if I did it for you, you wouldn't learn anything. But now that you know and you understand the commands you're running, you could run automation tools that do it for you.

[00:00:27]
You wanna bring up 50 instances of the MySQL Nodes server that you just did, we can do that with Ansible or Vagrant or Puppet. They're all a little bit different, but in general, think of it, they have their own kinda languages they use, different nuances, nomenclature. But at the core, it's just bringing up a server, and it brings up 50 of them at once.

[00:00:47]
And it automates all these things. So you want to create a user that has your ssh key, so you can ssh into anyone's instance. You'd do it with automating your deployments. Cuz no DevOps person worth their salt is gonna be doing this by hand. That's a waste of time.

[00:01:01]
And being a computer programmer is about optimizing what the computer can do. So I can do less. For now I'm gonna use Vagrant as example, Vagrant is just one. There's chef, there's Puppet, there's all these other tools than can do it for you. Yeah, this is where DevOps people tend to get really heated about their tool that they use.

[00:01:20]
They're very particular. Which you tend to be as a DevOps person, because you have your server just right and you're like, Vagrant is better than Chef because of this or this. I couldn't tell you they'll fine grain differences. But find your DevOps person and ask them a question, they'll probably tell you.

[00:01:34]
They're probably using something like this, like Ansible or Vagrant. But what does a Vagrant script look like? It's looks something like this. vagrant init, I'm gonna bring up precise64, which I think is a copy of Ubuntu, one of the older versions. And I just bring up a new script.

[00:01:49]
It's gonna instantiate that with all the users, all of my ssh keys. My ports are open, all of my software is installed by default. And it just does that for you. That's what I mean by automating deployments, where we can just bring up 100 machines at once, 200, and take them down.

[00:02:02]
That's what these tools are really good at, that's what they're for.

