[00:00:00]
>> So we've got data going down into our components, but now we need to get some user interaction causing events to come back up. Otherwise we don't have a game. So we'll begin by adding a button inside the square component. And we're gonna use the event forwarding shorthand that we learned earlier.

[00:00:22]
Let's do on:click, like that. And we're gonna give the button some styles so that it fills the square. We'll give it a position:absolute, width:100%, height:100%. You now see the button filling the square. And because we have that click handler, we can start listening for that inside our grid.

[00:00:49]
We start typing on click. It already knows that click is one of the events that this component can broadcast. So inside there, we'll start adding some logic. Now, there are various states that the game could be in when someone clicks on one of these buttons. The first state is the one that we have now, nothing is selected, or there could be one card that has so far been selected.

[00:01:21]
In other words, the card has been flipped over and we're revealing what is on the other side. And then we're gonna select the second one. Or we could be in a state where two cards have already been selected. We need to handle each of those separately. So the easiest one is, what if nothing is selected so far?

[00:01:49]
Well, we need some way of representing that state inside this component. So I'm gonna create some more variables, we'll call them a and b. a is a string, in fact, no, we're gonna use an index here, so it's gonna be a number. a is a number, and b is a number.

[00:02:08]
And in fact, we can initialize these to -1. That can be our way of representing the a and b are both currently unselected. And when we do select one of these, we can set that to the index within the array. In order to know the index inside the array, we need to add the ,i to our each block.

[00:02:33]
And it'll begin by saying that if a is -1 and b is -1, then nothing is selected. So in response, we need to assign the current index to the a value. Do that like that. All right, if I hit Save, Pretty is gonna format all of my messy code for me.

[00:03:02]
Okay, well, how do we represent that new state in our app? Well, we're gonna need to pass that information back down into the Square component. So we'll add a new prop on the Square, export let selected, that's gonna be a boolean. And we can add a class to div class="square" like this.

[00:03:32]
In fact, let's call it flipped, because that's how it's gonna be represented in the user interface when we get around to making this look more like a game. It's giving us an error because flipped is not a value, so we'll make that like this. Okay, and then we'll add some styles for that state, add a flip class.

[00:03:59]
In fact, let's add it on the button. Add some more ugly background colors. Inside our grid now, we're gonna see that there's a red squiggly under Square because we are not passing in a prop that the component expects. And fix that, selected = (a === i || b === i).

[00:04:27]
All right, so for each iteration of this loop, if a is 0 or b is 0, then the 0th element of that array should be selected. So hopefully, if we've wired this up correctly and I press one of these buttons now, right, it's gonna turn that into a selected state.

[00:04:46]
But only if we're in that state where nothing so far was selected. One other little detail here, you'll notice that if I click on the emojis, the button does not get clicked, that's annoying. So on the span, we're gonna add a pointer-events: none, right? That allows us to click anywhere inside that button, and it will have the desired effect.

[00:05:09]
All right, so let's carry on with this logic. So we've handled the first state where nothing was selected. Well, what about when a is selected, but b is unselected? In this case, we have we have two possibilities. The first possibility is that we selected a pair. The second possibility is that we selected something that was not a pair of the already selected element.

[00:05:44]
So we'll have another if block in here. If grid(a) === grid(b), congratulations, we found a pair, otherwise incorrect. And we'll put in some logic for that case in a minute. Otherwise, if neither of those conditions are true, then it means that we've already selected a and b. And then we need to flip those back over and start again.

[00:06:18]
So b is gonna revert to -1, and a is gonna become whatever we just selected. So now if I click this one and then this one, nothing's happening. Where did I go wrong? It's because I forgot to add that. Okay, so now we have both a and b selected.

[00:06:50]
If we select another one, it will reset the selection and get rid of the selected state on b. That's okay, but in any memory game like this, normally what happens is, after you've selected a pair, they get hidden immediately afterwards. So that you can't stare at them and make notes.

[00:07:08]
So we're gonna add a timeout that makes that happen in the case where we got it wrong, in the incorrect case. We'll do setTimeout, after a second we'll reset a and b both, to -1. We have to be when we set timeouts, because you could find a situation where the setTimeout callback runs after the user has continued selecting other squares.

[00:07:39]
So we need to be able to cancel that when necessary. So up here I'm gonna create a new variable, let resetTimeout, and that's gonna be a number. And then I'm gonna assign that to the setTimeout call. And then basically, every time I click, I'm just gonna clear that timeout.

[00:07:59]
So I don't need to worry about interactions clobbering each other. So hopefully, if I've done this right, if I select two cards, they'll stay selected for a second, and then they'll become unselected. If I select another card within that window, then it will just reset the timeout and carry on with a new selection, like so.

