[00:00:00]
>> Okay, so the one case that we haven't handled yet is the case where the user guessed correctly and now has a pair. And so from within this grid component, we need to communicate that up to the game components so that we can update the game state. And to do that, this component Grid.svelte needs to become an event dispatcher.

[00:00:22]
So, as we've seen in the workshop so far, we'll create dispatch as createEventDispatcher() and it's automatically imported that for us from Svelte. And then inside here, we're gonna dispatch a found event, and we're gonna give it some information, we're gonna pass the emoji that was found in that event.

[00:00:51]
And then in our Game.svelte componen, I'm gonna move that over to the left so that I can see it. We can now add a found event listener on the grid component. Like so, tab to accept that completion. All right, so this event data is gonna tell us which emoji was found.

[00:01:18]
You remember that we declared this array up here of the emojis that have been found, I'm just gonna push data into that array. Right, this e.detail object is something that you get on a custom event. And this isn't a spell thing, it's a dumb thing. The e.detail can be just an arbitrary object of data, it's basically whatever you pass in to your dispatch function.

[00:01:55]
Save so that pretty makes it look nice. And now we need to do something with the array of found emojis. First of all, we need to remove it from the grid because you can't find a pair twice. All right, same drill, and then scroll by now, we need to create this prop on the grid.

[00:02:20]
I'm just gonna duplicate that line with Command+Shift+D. Okay, now we need to represent that inside the square component. So we're gonna pass a found property into here, but it's not gonna be the entire array. It's just gonna be a boolean of whether or not found includes the emoji that we're currently dealing with.

[00:02:43]
So inside square, just like selected as a boolean, we're gonna add a found boolean, and that's gonna be if the array includes the current emoji. And we can use this to remove the spam from the grid altogether, Once the emoji has been found. So now if I pick two pairs from the grid like these two fish, they get removed from the grid.

[00:03:37]
You'll notice, of course, that there is a repeating pattern here, the emojis at the top are duplicated in the bottom half of the grid. So this game isn't gonna be a whole lot of fun, so we need to shuffle the emojis. And to do that, we're gonna create a new module called utils.ts, and inside that module, we're gonna create a shuffle function.

[00:04:09]
Do export function shuffle, and the input to this function is gonna be an array of strings. But the fact that it's an array of strings actually isn't material, the shuffle function doesn't care what it's shuffling, so we're gonna turn this into a generic function. We do that by adding a generic argument like this, and then we can replace the string here with T.

[00:04:41]
This is nice because now when something calls shuffle and passes in an array of whatever values, then TypeScript will know what kind of array is getting back. Okay, so we're gonna implement something called the Fisher Yates shuffle algorithm which modifies an array in place. We begin by getting the current array length, and then we're just gonna work backwards.

[00:05:12]
At each point, we are gonna get a random value between 0 and the current index. So that's Math.floor of Math.random() * i + 1 because we just decremented it. And we wanna get a temporary variable that contains an array i, I think, and then we do array [i] = array [j] and array [j] = temp.

[00:06:02]
If I get this right first time, I'm gonna be super happy with myself. And then we just return the array at the end. So now inside the game where we create this grid, we can take these peer where we're just duplicating everything and we can shuffle that before we return it, right?

[00:06:22]
Okay, we need to import it and we do that from utils. If I hit Save, hopefully we're gonna get a randomized array. All right, it doesn't look that random because we've got the caterpillars next to each other and the dinosaurs on top of each other, but it is.

[00:06:37]
This is a shuffled array. Okay, so things are starting to take shape. One thing we're not doing right now is we're not storing the emojis that we've found outside the grid, and we have a space to do that in this info block below the game grid. So we would like to include all of the emoji that have been found so far down here.

[00:07:04]
We're gonna create a new component for this, we call it found.svelte. Just do div class = "found". And it will take the found array, export let found: string array. And we'll just render, I need to add the lang = ts, that's why it's giving me the red squigglers.

[00:07:31]
And it's just gonna render an array of all of the found emojis. And I'm gonna add a key there so that we can do some funky animation stuff later on when we build the app. Right, back in my game.svelte, We can create that component. And pass the find array into it.

[00:08:11]
And now if I find a pair of these turtles here, then hopefully it's gonna appear down here. It's a little hard to see though, so I'm gonna go back to found.svelte and add some styles. Maybe bump that a little bit further. We want that to be centered, so we're gonna add some display flex goodness to div class = found.

[00:08:57]
Justify content center, align-items: center. We'll put a little gap between the things that we find. And now find some more of these pairs, they'll also get added to that array at the bottom,

