[00:00:00]
>> Shirley Wu: Interactions, and in this section I want to talk about the fact that with D3, and just D3, I think it's really easy to put in hover, and click, and other really simple interactions, so it's pretty easy to do that with D3, but if you want any more complicated interactions, I would actually encourage you to use something like React, or view, or other similar things that help you manage your application.

[00:00:30]
The more complicated it is, React or something else, will make that a lot easier, and oftentimes I will use React with D3 to help me, if I have user interactions where I have to update the visualization after each user manipulation of the underlying data. So if they can edit any parts of the data, and that has to be reflected in the visualization right away, I would use something like React.

[00:00:58]
I would use something like React if I wanted to be linking multiple visualization. So if interactions with one visualization will change the look of a different visualization I will use React. So that could be something like crossfilter where you can drag a brush around to filter different bar charts and that affects the looks of every other chart or something like that.

[00:01:27]
You can definitely do it with D3 using D3 dispatch, and it is this kind of pub-sub model, but I find that my code gets really messy and often pretty buggy and kind of hard to debug. When I do it with just D3 & React, it makes that really easy for me, and finally things like exploratory tools, and so that comes back to what we were talking at the very beginning of today, when we were talking about expository versus exploratory.

[00:02:01]
A lot of exploratory tools where you can do some filtering or aggregating. Those sorts of things is really great with React when you use it in conjunction with D3, and as I mentioned at the very beginning of today, there's that other course that's data where I go into kind of these interactions a little bit at the end.

[00:02:25]
So, if you're interested, take a look at that.

