[00:00:00]
>> Brian: So yeah, I just wanted to emphasize, especially for future video watchers, that this is version three. So make sure that you are on the correct course website because there are three versions of it. I just wanted to you right here that there are versions one, two, and three.

[00:00:17]
With the version three, there's not really a good reason to watch version two anymore, but there is still a good reason to watch version one. Version one is gonna use createClass, which we're not gonna use createClass at all today. And if this doesn't make sense to you, it's okay cuz it's deprecated.

[00:00:33]
It uses Mocha, Chai, Sinon for testing. So if you wanna see how react testing looks with those particular frameworks, that's a good reason to look at it. Version one, version two used what's called standard ESLint. And today, we're going to be using Airbnb. And then, there's just a bunch of other stuff down here.

[00:00:52]
You can look at that at your leisure. So there are links to version one and version two on here. But again, today, we're gonna be on version three. You can always be assured that the one that's at this particular URL, which is also easy to get to at, thinho.lt/react will always be the most up to date one.

[00:01:13]
And then, I'll move the other ones to different links.
>> Brian: I'm really excited that Frontend Master gives me the time and [COUGH] resources to be able to go and develop this course. All of this material will live online free forever. And yeah, you can watch the videos on Frontend Masters, which is pretty sweet.

[00:01:35]
So a little more introduction about me. My name's Brian Holt, currently living in San Francisco, but originally from Salt Lake City. Just really, really happy to be here. Previously worked at Netflix and Reddit. Currently doing the unemployed thing, which is pretty fun. I'm really enjoying that. And yeah, this is the complete intro to React.

[00:02:00]
So let's talk about the structure of how this particular workshop is gonna work. A lot of times when you get into React tutorials, they just kinda throw you straight into the deep end, right? It's like out of the box, you have to set up webpack, and then Babel, and testing frameworks, and just all these different tools right out of the box.

[00:02:19]
And a common refrain amongst new developers with React is it's too complicated. There's too much going on. There's too much magic, and I don't really get it, which is really frustrating to me because it doesn't have to be that way, right? React itself, at least the way that you interact with React, is actually really simple.

[00:02:38]
And then, we built all this complexity on top of it to make it easier, right? Some of these two terms here, simple and easy, which I'm borrowing from a talk called Simple Made Easy, which I definitely suggest that you go watch. But to kind of define those terms for you, something can be easy and complex and something can be simple and hard, right?

[00:02:57]
So easy just means that it's really easy to get done, but it can be very complicated. And simple means that it's the thing itself is actually fairly simple. Or in other words, not complex, but it can be really hard to wrap your mind around, right? So my best example, that's Redux, right?

[00:03:12]
A lot people find Redux to be very simple cuz there's not much to it, but it's pretty hard. It's a pretty hard library to get your mind around. So anyway, what I wanna say is that we're gonna start with bare-bones React, with literally nothing else. We're gonna not even like include a separate script file.

[00:03:29]
We're going to put it straight into the HTML to show you that it really is a pretty simple library. And then, as we are gonna keep going, we're gonna keep introducing new tools to make our lives easier. But in that process of introducing tools, we make our application more complex, right?

[00:03:48]
So basically, what I'm trying to say is, I'm gonna try and justify the complexity of the tooling to you. And along the way, hopefully, you'll be able to understand the tools that we're using as well. So yeah, with Reacts, typically, you're not using just Reacts, right? You can, and I'm not saying React by itself can build complicated apps, and there's no reason to even introduce a build step.

[00:04:12]
So it can be done. However, it's gonna make your life easier if you do have these tools. So by showing you these tools, I'm justifying the complexity. I'm hoping that you'll see why they're there and embrace the complexity for the sake of ease.
>> Brian: Furthermore, you don't have to use any of these tools that we're using today.

[00:04:33]
For example, we're gonna be using Flow later in the day, maybe tomorrow, probably? Probably tomorrow, but you can use TypeScript, that's totally okay. These are all just choices. I've made a bunch of choices for you and hopefully that you can see where to pull out these tools and put your own in.

[00:04:50]
React is a kind of choose your own adventure, right? It's not necessarily, this is the one way to do everything, right? It's not self-prescriptive like Meteor. Meteor is amazing, but you don't get many choices with Meteor. You get some, but not very many. With React, it's kind of an open field for you to kind of put the different pieces together.

[00:05:08]
But that means you get stuck putting all the pieces together, as well. So, cool. So yes, you're gonna be able to plug your own pieces in. And I'll be sure along the way to highlight different alternatives that you could definitely use. So today, we'll be using things like Node, webpack, Jest, Enzyme, Yarn, Prettier, ESLint, and React-Router, Flow.

[00:05:33]
We're gonna use the Airbnb config for ESLint. These are all the different kind of technologies we're gonna use. If you don't already have Node installed at this point, please make sure that you get that done sooner rather than later. As long as you're above four, I don't think we're gonna be using anything that's more complicated than that.

[00:05:51]
You really could get by on 0.12. I do not recommend it though. [LAUGH] I will be on 7.10. And actually, I saw that today, eight is getting released. We will not be using eight, [LAUGH] cool. There's a ton of spelling errors and stuff like this on the repost.

[00:06:13]
So if you see them, feel free to file an issue, open a poll request, you know, angry Tweets. All these things work at getting at me, so...cool. So, let's go ahead and get started. So the first thing is I'm gonna need you to go clone the start branch, which I have a nice little link there for you, which I'm going to do with you as well.

[00:06:41]
Along the way I'm willing to be pushing up branches to this repo. In fact, you can see here, there's a lot of branches. I'll be prefixing everything with V3, but today we're gonna go ahead and start with Start.
>> Brian: So, I'm not gonna be talking too much how to use Git today.

[00:07:01]
There's plenty of tutorials for that online. But I will show you how to go ahead and clone the. So I'm gonna just come here, I'm going to grab this URL and go to my command line. And I'm gonna say git clone That.
>> Brian: And I need to get the start bench too.

[00:07:22]
So I'm gonna say git fetch origin start.
>> Brian: I have to go into the repo first.
>> Brian: Okay, and I'm gonna git checkout start. So just to make sure. Yep, and I am now on the V3 stark branch. Okay, so it should look a little something like this.

[00:07:50]
Just to kind of give you a bit of a tour around, you're going to have an editorconfig file This is only if you use editorconfig, which is a nice plug in for almost every different editor, it's just going to set all of your editor preferences automatically for you for that particular project.

[00:08:07]
So in this particular case it's gonna make sure they have two spaces for indents, it's gonna be using spaces not tabs, all these different things. So gitignore, just a bunch of stuff that we should ignore open this in sublime. I'm gonna be using sublime for today because that's what I know hoe to use.

[00:08:25]
I have no host in this particular battle of which editor to use, I just don't care. [LAUGH]
Actually, I hadn't been using cloud today. I was arguing, well, arguing, yeah, arguing with someone about semicolons this morning. And I have spent more characters typing out arguing about semicolons than I have saved from not writing semicolons.

[00:08:50]
Which I found quite ironic. So, okay, let's look at what we have here. So, we have a data, that JSON file. Which is going to be a bunch of TV shows kind of data. This is what we're gonna be building today is kind of a video viewing sort of app.

[00:09:07]
So this just has a bunch of like titles, descriptions, that sort of thing. That's went to data.json. In my package.json file I have locked down these dependencies for you, the reason being that, typically you don't want to lock down dependencies like I have here, but if someone tries this workshop in like a year, right, if they don't get the same dependencies, everything is going to break.

[00:09:32]
I can't tell you how many times I get tweeted like, hey this is broken, and that's because they try newer versions of one of these particular Libraries. So, anyways, needless to say, these are all our dependencies. Which is crazy, right, when you look at how many dependencies we're bringing in here, which hopefully makes sense during the day.

[00:09:54]
Then we have this ratings api.js. So previously this used the open movie database to pull different meta data for these movie or tv shows down, unfortunately that API went private so I kind of wrote here just like a quick and dirty little API server that you can run for yourself so this will always work.

[00:10:17]
So that's all this does, it's just a tiny little express server. And I'll show you how to run it later. And then lastly, there's a lock file. This is a lock file to lockdown all the dependencies. So cool. So that's everything that should be included. And there's some CSS and images and whatnot.

[00:10:38]
So we'll be using those as well. Okay, so going back here. This is literally the notes that I have, that I'm going to be reading from while I teach you this workshop. So if you fall behind or if you wanna see something a different way or see what I'm reading here, it's all available here.

[00:10:58]
And that's actually what I have on this laptop here. So

