[00:00:00]
>> Welcome to the complete intro to computer science, data structure, and algorithms. My name is Brian Holt, I'm super excited to be here talking to you all, this is the, I don't know, 50th time I've been here, I've really can't count that high. But suffice to say, for some reason Frontend Masters keeps inviting me back, and for some reason I keep making that joke, I don't know why.

[00:00:20]
I think it's like time is a flat circle sort of, anyway, no one wants to talk about that with me. Today we're gonna talk about computer science, specifically data structure and algorithms, I'm really excited to be back here talking to you about that. So, yeah, let's get into my background a little bit and why I'm excited to teach you this.

[00:00:44]
First of all, I've actually taught what's called four semesters of computer science in five hours, this is actually the second revision of that course. We kind of made the title a little less [LAUGH] clickbatey, and I think we improved the course, but the material here is gonna be relatively similar.

[00:01:00]
The nice thing about computer science is that it doesn't change very much year to year. Most of the things I've been talking to you about were invented in the 50s, 60s, 70s, so you learn these ones and you get to know them forever. Cool, so the first thing you'll see here on my screen, is I had this nice little course website.

[00:01:21]
This is all of my notes, so literally, you can see here I have two computers, one of them, I just have this website off and I'm just kind of going through point by point. So this is something that you can keep after you're done with the course and refer back to, you can share it with your friends.

[00:01:34]
One of the really nice things in Frontend Masters allows me to do is to open source all the course material. So if there's spelling mistakes, please go in and fix them, these courses get better as people help, and it's all open source on GitHub. Okay, so let's kind of just orient you a little bit with this site here, you can see we have various different sections here.

[00:01:57]
Most of these are pretty self contained, so if you go to Trees and you wanna do that, you don't necessarily have to take Binary Search first, which is a nice feature that. The only thing I'll say is that the Trees and Applying Tree Algorithms, as you might guess, are kinda then based on each other, everything else is pretty self contained.

[00:02:17]
You can see here that these are links, so if I click into one of these, here in the top right, you'll see that the name of the section and the name of the lesson that we're on. So, if I'm in the middle of a lesson, you can kinda see which part of the website I'm on.

[00:02:28]
So if you can hop back into wherever I am. Cool, so let's talk a little bit about why you might wanna take this course. You might wanna take this course because you're interested in computer science and wanna be a better programmer, that's kind of where I started learning about these sort of things.

[00:02:48]
These things are also very useful for interviews because big tech companies love to ask these kinds of questions. For reasons unknown to me, cuz most of them don't necessarily apply on your day to day. But they think it's a measure of intelligence, which I would very bohemian say that it's not a measure of intelligence.

[00:03:06]
But in any case, it is the way it is, so I'm gonna help you cheat at those interviews by knowing all of the things. Is that cheating by just by just knowing the thing? I guess no kind of, anyway, don't care, I want you to pass all of your interviews and get paid lots of money, that's my goal here.

[00:03:24]
Okay, here you'll see I have these blue boxes on here, these are just points of emphasis. So whenever you see a blue box, be sure to pay attention to those on the site. The first one here is just kinda giving you permission to feel like this is hard.

[00:03:38]
[LAUGH] We're about to go learn a lot of kind of concepts require a lot of brain, power to just process through, which is exhausting. So, expecting you to do all of these right in a row is very difficult. And I'm just gonna say for those of you that are watching this later and read recorded, just give yourself space to do it, right?

[00:04:00]
Take this over a couple of days, walk away from the computer, think about it, come back. There's a reason why the college has spread this out over two years, it's cuz it's kind of hard to do this all at once. So, just be aware you have this just tidal wave of knowledge coming your way.

[00:04:16]
And if it feels like you're drowning, you might be a little bit, and that's okay, right? That's kinda how this is supposed to work. But at the same time, it's just really good to be exposed to these things and kind of let them sink in over time. Maybe take this class a couple of times and you'll get a little bit more each time.

[00:04:34]
But in any case, the number one thing here I'm saying is do not get down on yourself, right? That's really easy to do when these things seem really hard and it feels like everyone else is getting it. Brian's breezing through this, why is this so hard for me?

[00:04:47]
Don't go to that place, there's nothing useful there for you, just be okay having a hard time. That's really what I wanna get here, it's okay to feel this is hard. By the way, I have to look these up every time I have to use them, I don't just have this tucked away in the back of my head.

[00:05:07]
I prepared for this course and spent a bunch of time doing this, so I don't even have this all in my head all at once. All right, it's enough of that. So who is this course for? Hopefully this course is for you, that's who I wrote it for [LAUGH].

[00:05:21]
There is a basic expectation that you know JavaScript, in that I'm not going to be teaching your JavaScript today, hopefully you're okay with JavaScript. If you don't know JavaScript, Frontend Masters has a lot of great and even free resources. I linked down here to the boot camp, which I taught along with Jenn Kramer, and that's totally free for everybody, definitely, share that with your friends as well.

[00:05:46]
And that'll get you up to speed where you could probably take this class. I'm not gonna be doing any sort of advanced JavaScript stuff, I even took most of the functional programming stuff out of this class. So it's actually fairly straightforward or I hope it's straightforward, that's where I designed it to be that you can be the judge of that.

[00:06:06]
Okay, who's this lovely bastard on the screen? That's me [LAUGH]. My name is Brian, I work at Microsoft, I live in Seattle at the moment, I've lived there for four or five years now. I did attend college, I did go to a university where I learned computer science, I actually ended up dropping out of college.

[00:06:26]
But I had taken three years of computer science, so I did take these classes in college. But I really was always kind of annoyed that I felt that people felt that this knowledge of computer science was locked up in these $50,000 degrees a semester, those kind of things, and that this was inaccessible to them.

[00:06:44]
Cuz in reality, most of these concepts, as you'll see, I can teach you in a couple of hours. And you'll just know them and you'll have them for the rest of your life, and you didn't need a four year degree to get it. The other thing I wanna make sure that as I'm not disparaging Computer Science degrees either, they are useful and for people that have them, high five, I wish I had one.

[00:07:06]
[LAUGH] So that's also useful as well, but I wanna make sure that we're not gate keeping either way, we're not making people that have CS degrees to that. But we also wanna bring people that don't have CS degrees with us, right? And share all this knowledge. So, that's why I wrote this course, is I really wanted to make sure that if you didn't feel that knowledge was locked behind some dollar figure.

[00:07:30]
So, yeah, as I started working at large and larger companies, the funny thing is I used to think that these concepts were totally worthless, right? I learned all these things in a vacuum and I thought why would my ever gonna need to know how to do 17 different ways of sorting numbers.

[00:07:47]
Turns out, after working at Netflix and Reddit and LinkedIn and Microsoft and all these big companies, these actually do get used and they are useful to know. But more than anything, it's actually the mindset of trading off, what I'm gonna do this thing and I'm going to sacrifice this other thing.

[00:08:04]
That sort of mindset is really what computer science is, to me it's just the science of making trade offs. And I'm gonna be using the word trade off today. I don't know if you've ever watched me on front end happier, if we had a keyword today and it was trade off, we'd all be drunk by the end of the class.

[00:08:20]
If not, you can go listen to in front of happier that joke will make more sense to you. All right, yeah, I wanna help you learn methodologies of structured thinking, that's kind of my goal here today. What else? When I'm not teaching here at Frontend Masters, when I'm not working, I like to exercise, I hop on my peloton too much.

[00:08:47]
I really like scotches, I like very happy bear, I have an amazing wife Nikki, I like getting my ass kicked. And over watch, as most of the Frontend Masters team can attest to. And I like traveling as well, I haven't done that in a little while, but that's also something I have loved to do.

[00:09:09]
I have an adorable dog, I put a picture of Luna, and literally every course that I teach, so there she is. I just dropped some links to my favorite charities in here, these are the ones that I support, they're certainly awesome. So if you're interested in finding some cool charity support, there's a couple on there as well.

[00:09:26]
As always, special thanks to Frontend Masters, I really appreciate them giving me the opportunity to get up here to share this knowledge with you. Yeah, they're awesome people to work with, thanks Frontend Masters. As always, I put my socials on here, you can find me on Twitter, LinkedIn, GitHub, and Peloton.

[00:09:49]
I do have open DMs on both of them, I am terrible at answering them, so just be aware, feel free to send them, I might not respond cuz I get a lot of them

