[00:00:00]
>> Steve Kinney: So I have a brand new AWS account that I made this morning and so it's kind of like tabula rasa. And we're gonna take a quick look at the free-tier and then we're going to go ahead and get this account set up, right? Because just creating an account, there's a few things you need to do, mostly for your security.

[00:00:19]
[LAUGH] Because if your main account gets compromised, it's not a great scene. Especially if you are somebody who is about to get API keys on a livestream and broadcast it across the world and have it recorded. You'd probably wanna do the due diligence of securing the account. So we'll talk a little bit about what that means.

[00:00:42]
Cool, so let's take a look at the free tier real quick and that is at AWS.amazon.com/free. It's a good url. And for the first year there are some things that are forever free and there are some things that are free for the first year of your account, right?

[00:00:58]
Like I said, most of the stuff that we're doing today, even not on the free tier is not going to break the bank. We'll even set up some billing alert, so if things get out of control and the nank starts breaking, you know about it pretty soon. So we'll set up some billing alerts as well so you don't have to take my word for it.

[00:01:17]
So in the kind of first year you get a whole bunch of different services. Let's actually look here, first 12 months. We're not gonna be using most of these, but for CloudFront you get 50 gigabytes of data transfer out. That's pretty good. So on and so forth. And then always free you'll get Cloud watch logs.

[00:01:44]
There's other stuff like code pipeline. We're not gonna do that today but those are pretty cool as well. For the lambdas, you get a million invocations of your lambda function a month, forever. So this site really needs to take off before you start blowing past the free tier.

[00:02:03]
For Route 53, that will be about $0.50 a month. And eventually you will not have free S3 in CloudFront. But that will, again, for the amount that we're doing not be too big of a deal. I had to sit through a workshop where one of the people from ops showed us how to check our billing alerts, and each team at Sangri is alloted about a thousand dollars.

[00:02:29]
And it was basically how to check and they're like every team was supposed to be checking regularly if they were kind of nearing that or otherwise things would get automatically shut off. We have this thing called Crampus, and Crampus finds your untagged over costly services and just shuts them down.

[00:02:44]
So when I went to look at the Frontend ones, that's when I found out we were spending about between $9 and $13 so. I don't check anymore, don't tell anyone. Cool, all right so that's the free tier and if you just made an account, you'll have that for about 12 months.

[00:03:00]
But like I said even if you don't, it's not gonna be the biggest deal in the world.

