[00:00:03]
>> Steve Kinney: So we have the point where we now have the ability to publish our application, but that URL is still not great. So what we wanna do is we registered a fun domain name. I did not get a .vodka, I got a nice good old-fashioned .com. And what we wanna do is set up Route 53 to basically, that is, the registrar is Amazon.

[00:00:29]
Now, if you have a domain name somewhere else, you can point that domain name at Route 53, and have Route 53 point it to your bucket, right? At SendGrid, for instance, we use, I think, DNS Made Easy. Personally, I use Hover. If you go through Amazon, then you don't have to configure anything.

[00:00:46]
If you got it somewhere else, you can still use it without Route 53. It's not a prerequisite that you bought the domain name through Amazon in order to use it, it's just a few extra steps. So Route 53 is a scalable DNS service, DNS stands for domain name service, and what does that do?

[00:01:03]
It basically takes a easy-to-remember domain name and turns it into the real IP address that it actually is, and Route 53 can do a lot of interesting things. We're not running any servers, but you could, for instance, if you were running servers that had a healthcheck.json, it can basically ping it every once in a while.

[00:01:25]
If the server is not responding, it can take it out of a load balancer, or it can basically route people towards their closest server based on where they are in the world. We're gonna use CloudFront. We don't need a lot of stuff, but it's really interesting for some of the server-side aspects.

[00:01:39]
Basically, what we need is two things. One, we need to get our URL working, and two, we want to eventually have an HTTPS server. So we're gonna kinda get both of those things set up really quick, and then we'll take a break, cuz DNS takes time. All right, so we'll get that ready to rock, and then we will go check on it a little bit.

[00:02:02]
All right, so we're gonna get superimportantwebsite.com up and running.

