[00:00:00]
>> Steve Kinney: We're gonna do a quick aside. I'm gonna go through this just kinda with a bunch of screenshots, because this is totally optional. But we're going to register a domain name. The reason that we're gonna kinda do it separately, and I'll walk you through the process first, is that it involves putting a lot of personal information.

[00:00:17]
And I'm not particularly in the mood to dox myself at this moment, ask me later, and I might be. So we'll kind of go through the steps. If you don't want to register a domain name, that is totally cool, I'm gonna register one. You won't be able to do necessarily everything in this course, like setting up the DNS on your newly registered domain name is not gonna be a thing that you do, but I am not the boss of you and I can't make you register a domain name.

[00:00:44]
So this is gonna be an option, but let's go through the steps. The registration takes time, so I understand that, he was just talking S3 and now we're talking about registering a domain name, totally, right? The other interesting part is that for a very simple S3 static website hosting the bucket has to have the same name as the domain that you plan on hosting it with.

[00:01:03]
So if you go like, I have a great idea for a website, it's gonna be frontendmasters.com and you make that bucket and then you go to register the domain name you realize that it's taken, that's going to be somewhat problematic. Also, bucket names have to be unique. So if for instance, Mark and Tanner have a bucket called frontendmasters.com, you cannot make a bucket with that name.

[00:01:27]
So there is a little bit of a dance here, in terms of getting both to be unique. This is only a short time limitation where they have to have the same name, but it is in the early stages workshop, a limitation that we have to deal with. Cool, so let's actually walk through the steps.

[00:01:43]
We'll go visit Amazon Route 53, and we have that one option for domain registration. And then there's another blue button called Register Domain. I'll give you a hint what happens there. Then, the hard part, and the part that you don't wanna watch anyone do live. If you thought live coding was dangerous, live domain name shopping [LAUGH] is also dangerous.

[00:02:08]
So you can find some kind of website, I eventually went with mysuperfunwebsite.com, which you can totally visit right now. It's the app that I showed you earlier, there is no surprises there, sorry. And you add it to the cart. You click that Continue button, which that page is long enough you can add it to the car and then you're gonna set there for a few seconds wondering what the next step is, you actually have to scroll to the bottom of the page to find the Continue button.

[00:02:37]
This is literally why I made the screenshot, so. Cool, and then you dox yourself, and you put in all your personal information.
>> Steve Kinney: Then you undox yourself by making sure that you put on [LAUGH] domain privacy so no one can WHOIS you. Basically, you can go to, if somebody doesn't do this and they type WHOIS mysuperfunwebsite.com, and I didn't turn this on, it would be my address.

[00:03:03]
And then I'd have friends over, it would be great. So you'd turn this on and, basically, you put in all this information, and then they don't show it to anyone, cool. And then you confirm all that information again. You see why I'm not doing this live now, right?

[00:03:17]
You confirm all of that information, and now, then you wait, effectively. And this is why we're doing this now. So if you wanna register a domain name, we can do it together during a break. It will take a little bit of time, and hopefully when we come back, we'll jump back into S3.

[00:03:34]
And then by the time we're ready to use this domain name with the live demo gods smiling upon us, our domain name should be registered at that point. So I've registered superimportantwebsite.com, we had a lot of fun looking at some other top level domains. But some of those can get a little pricey.

[00:03:58]
[LAUGH] So here we've got superimportantwebsite.com, cool. So that's gonna take a little bit of time to cook, so we'll go back to talking about S3 in the meantime.

