[00:00:00]
>> So just to give you I guess, that same explanation kind of in a diagram form, there's scenes, scenes of game objects. And the game objects can have any number of components attached. They'll always have at least one though, because every game object has a transform component. So we're finally getting into actually using Unity.

[00:00:26]
I know that was like a lot of expository information but there's a lot to know without making games. So we're going to just use primitive shapes for our game, and we just need a cube that's going to be our game board. And then we're going to have spheres for our player, the opponent and the collectible, which were the little purple spheres that I showed earlier.

[00:00:57]
And we're going to place these in the game world. So I've written out the values here but I'll go ahead and actually place these in unity and show you how that works. So let's switch over and I'm going to open up the scene view here so I can see what's in the scene.

[00:01:23]
And right now I have this Skybox here actually, which if I rotate around, it looks like a studio environment. And that's just what's going to be reflected on to any kind of game objects or materials in the scene. So that's not actually something that's going to be rendered in the game just wanted to point that out now.

[00:01:47]
But the first thing that we're gonna to do is create some primitives by going to the hierarchy here you'll see a little plus button and if I click that, that will bring up what's called the Create menu. There's a lot of things that you can create. We can create empty game objects.

[00:02:05]
We can create empty children or parent game objects of the currently selected game object in the hierarchy. But we wanna go to 3D objects, and we want to create a cube. So I'll click that It's going to be called cube by default, but I'll rename that. And I'm going to call it board, because this is going to be our game board.

[00:02:32]
And, like I said, if you hold down Option on Mac or Alt on Windows, you'll see that you can orbit in the scene view by clicking and dragging with that key held down. And there's our cube there. If I hit the F key for frame, it will frame up the currently selected game object so I can actually see that that's there.

[00:02:54]
And of course, you can zoom in, and out with your scroll wheel your device. And so yeah, I've got our game board here. And you'll see that I've got some transform controls here as well those are these arrows. And if I click and drag on those, I can move this up and down.

[00:03:17]
I can actually select a plane here to select two different arrows at the same time and lock my transformations to a plane. But for today's lessons, we're just going to type in values into the inspector in the transform component, so like I said, every game object has a transform.

[00:03:38]
So a camera, a light, this event system, and this cube we just created Has a transform and that transform has position rotation and scale values. For this cube we're going to set the x value to zero, we're going to set the y value to 0.5. And then we're going to set Z to zero.

