[00:00:00]
>> So in terms of resources, I've mentioned it before, but I does as a final, really big thank you to Chris Fritz's vue enterprise boilerplate. In this a huge hat tip to him for doing a lot of the incredible work that he's done. So in case for those who don't know, Chris used to be on the vue core team on glass team and basically helped to pioneer a lot of what we know as the docks today, and has been an absolute incredible contributor to the ecosystem.

[00:00:34]
And so for him to not only do all that work on the docks, but then to also open source all his consulting knowledge in this way. Again, biggest thank you to Chris for all his work in the ecosystem. We're very lucky to have you in it. When it comes to enterprise level apps, as we sort of talked about one of the things that I think is a misconception with vue apps a lot of times is that it doesn't have a lot of opinions on how you do things.

[00:01:06]
And this is true by default because what we really want is for you to choose what's best for you. However, similar to the question we have earlier, sometimes it makes sense to actually have a starting point and not start from scratch. And so, if you haven't checked it out already vue does have an opinionated style guide that is categorized into different rule sets.

[00:01:24]
That, basically are, think of it like ES, lint rules. And what's nice about this is, this gives you an opinion in a way to start structuring your app. So for example, like in the essential one, enforcing multi-component names ensuring that prompt definitions are written correctly that every v4 has a key.

[00:01:43]
But then going forward, right there are then some more call it strongly recommended rules which you'll probably recognize in some of the things we talked about today. And so the if you include these rule sets in your ES lint, it will go ahead and make sure that you're actually following these principles.

[00:01:56]
Again, following as we talked about before automating this piece of these conventions. And so, in case you're wondering you can a hundred percent just like any other ES lint rule. You can say, I like this set a lot, but I want to disable this one thing. It's still entirely configurable.

[00:02:13]
I think it was Sarah Drasner who said this best. What I love about vue is the fact that it gives me what I want and then it gets out of my way. And so, I think the fact that when it comes to vue and things like the style guide, the fact that you can start with some opinions.

[00:02:28]
And then have escape hatches out of it is a great way for people to formulate what is best for them and their team. So definitely keep an eye on the style guide. In view three, there will probably be new rules added because with the new code base and new features, there probably will be new best practices that are established as time goes on.

[00:02:46]
So keep an eye on those, but this is the v2 one that we have screenshotted right now. And of course, v3 is a big topic right now. So in the event you're like, okay, I I get it out. I'm going to go ahead and wait for view three, but I'd really love to learn about what's coming down the pipe.

[00:03:03]
Please check out the official view three migration guide. In there we've gone ahead and tried to document any like what breaking changes there are and what basically new things are coming and things you'll probably have to keep in mind as you prepare for that migration. So definitely be sure to check that out if you're interested in what the migration path might look like from v2 to v3.

[00:03:27]
All right, well, thank you everyone for joining a huge congratulations for all of you for sticking around. I know it's been a long day remote workshops can be a little bit challenging, but I really appreciate you all spending the time with me to chat about view. And so I could share this knowledge with you.

[00:03:46]
Again, a big thanks to everyone involved for making this production happen. In case you're wondering, I'm the dinosaur on the left. This is one view con for us. This was the last in person conference I went to earlier this year. And so, we were the MCs and doing the pink dinosaur thing, so that is a cherished memory.

[00:04:03]
And yeah, it's been a lot of fun, so thanks everyone for watching and guess I'll see you around and, yeah. And if you have any other questions, please go ahead and hit me out again Ben Cruising on the internet of things I'm happy to chat further if you find things and documentation confusing, we love getting feedback about that because we always want to make our Doc's better and find ways to clarify it.

[00:04:24]
So please, yeah, stay in touch and I guess I'll see you around the vue community.

