[00:00:00]
>> So after the interview and the takeaways from that last section, the one takeaway is, there's many skills that are required to be a good leader, you won't be good at all of them. It's better to accept that and then try to work on things than try to be good at everything, it's just not possible.

[00:00:15]
I'd say, so number 1, be kind to yourself. You should build up skills at events, it will make the transition to management a lot easier. Do when you can, but I'd say you definitely should just get advice all around. Take advantage of opportunities whether internal, if there's opportunities to move, whether it's mentoring opportunities, whether it's opportunities to talk to other managers, take every opportunity you can to learn.

[00:00:46]
And like we said earlier, a lot of stuff is luck, a lot of life is luck, and where you end up is luck. It's about how you leverage those opportunities and take advantage of them is the difference between people that are successful and people that are not as successful, just moving quickly and knowing when to take advantage.

[00:01:05]
And the interview is a measure of your potential. As a software engineer, that first interview, speak to what you know, speak to your experience, but understand, the interviewer understands this too. You've never actually done it, so you're probably more ambitious and speak highly about your philosophy and thinking scenarios are clean, there's clean ways of solving problems.

[00:01:28]
And that's fine. When I interviewed for my role and reflecting back in, I joke with my manager now who interviewed me for the role. And he's like, yeah, you had no idea what you were talking about, but you had good intent and you had some experience to lean on.

[00:01:43]
But the truth is, where you are and what you were talking about then is very different, my philosophies are different too. And that's fine. Just recognize that going in, as they're measuring your potential, not what you actually know in the moment.

