[00:00:02]
>> Jon Kuperman: The last think is experiment, so there's always really cool stuff going on in the DevTools that they're working on. So in order to get the experiments turned on, you wanna go to About://flags. And so these are all these flags that you can turn on for Chrome that can do dangerous things or sometimes awesome things.

[00:00:22]
But the one we want is developer tools experiments. You turn that on, and you'll have to restart your browser. And as soon as your browser restarts, you can then go to the dots and go to settings, and then see this cool experiments tab. So there's like all these things that they're working on.

[00:00:36]
These change pretty often. Yeah, they might crash your computer or whatever, but you get a really cool idea of like what's coming next in DevTools which is nice. Custom UI themes, this is some protocol monitors, really cool. The super top secret tip is if you then hit Shift seven times, you get this super secret experiments here.

[00:00:59]
So Blackbox, JavaScript frames, all this kind of cool stuff. Terminal in drawer, this is something they've been working on. It's like a full file system terminal that would be in your, right in your DevTools console. It should be pretty cool. Yeah, you can play with all these. You can turn them on.

[00:01:13]
I've never had them crash or anything like that. I think it's less stable than the quality you're used to from Chrome stable, but it's still like really high quality stuff. So yeah, the experiments are really fun. There's also Chrome Canary. I'm not sure how many people use it, but Chrome also publishes the Canary, like a nightly build version of their browser.

[00:01:31]
So you can just download Google Chrome Canary. That'll also have some pretty cutting edge DevTools stuff in it. Cool, where do we go from here? I made, back on the activities here, I made a resources panel. So if we go look at that, I just kinda put all the links that you might want that I linked through throughout the slides.

[00:01:48]
Where the slides are, a cool website on page jank, the code repository, the DevTools docs, some people to follow that tweet a lot about DevTools. All that kind of stuff, and that wraps it up. For anybody that's interested, I always offer at the end of these workshops that we could audit websites.

[00:02:03]
If anybody has any that are online and they want audited, we can go through that together. But other than that, yeah. Thank you all very much for coming out, and let me know if you have any questions.

