[00:00:00]
>> Shirley Wu: So, hi my name is Shirley, I'll be teaching the T3 class today. A little bit about me to start with, so that's my Twitter handle, if you want to get in touch with me later for some reason, and I have a collaboration with my friend Nadich called data sketches.

[00:00:19]
And I'm really excited and I want to plug this because essentially what we do is it's a 12 month long project. And each month, we choose a topic and we visualize it by the end of the month. And then,
>> Shirley Wu: And then we do a write up about it.

[00:00:40]
So we talk about our data gathering process, our sketching process, and our code process. So we've been told that it's a really, really great both of us use D3 so it's a really great resource for people that are starting out in data visualization, that are starting our with D3 to kind of like look at our process and see what we've done.

[00:01:00]
So if you have the time, please check it out, we'd be super happy. The second thing is I'm a co-organizer for the Bay Area D3 user meetup, as well as the annual D3 unconference. So if you get away from today being like, my God, D3 is so awesome.

[00:01:17]
I wanna do this, like, with my whole life, and you're like interested in meeting other people that want to do this for their whole life or do this for their whole life, with their whole life. Then we have an annual unconference in San Francisco. Of about 150 people that gather and it's two days of just talking about D3 and data visualization is great.

[00:01:39]
And I think it's going to be late September this year. So make sure to check us out as well as finally, I am a instructor for Metis, which is a data science boot camp and I'm going to be teaching there. I'm going to be one of the instructors teaching their data visualization class, which is like six weeks in May.

[00:02:03]
And it's also available in Seattle, New York, and Chicago, I think, maybe Chicago soon. And I wanted to make sure to plug them because a lot of the things that I've learned of like how to teach the course comes from teaching their course and I also use one of their examples so, make sure also to check them out.

[00:02:25]
Yeah, that's all there is about me, and here is the agenda for the day. So, I want to start out by going through the D3 Ecosystem because it's like very big and vast and kind of a little bit overwhelming. And then we'll get into what I like to consider the core of D3, so how selections work, how data binding works.

[00:02:45]
And how to enter-append, essentially create DOM elements with D3. And then we'll kind of get into a little bit more of the fun stuff, which I think of as like, I guess scales aren't that fun. But scales and axes, so that you can create your own chart. And then the shapes module is also really helpful.

[00:03:08]
And then we'll go on to what I think is the biggest learning curve for D3, which is update and exit, so enter, update, exit. And then we'll do something that's fun with the transitions, the D3 animations and transitions. And we'll end with a forced layout, so I realize it's like, cuz D3 library is again vast, and it's probably less than 10% of the whole thing.

[00:03:37]
So my goal isn't to teach you the whole library, my goal is to teach you, what I think are the core and how it works under the hood. And how to look at the documentation so that hopefully by the end of the day, you can feel comfortable looking at the parts of the library that I didn't cover and use those and understand what's going on there.

[00:03:59]
And the second thing I realise I don't mention is I call this workshop version four but I'm not going to be like going through every single that has changed from version three to version four cuz there's like a bunch. So I'm hoping if I just cover the core and how those changed that we'll help cover the version four part [LAUGH]

