[00:00:00]
>> Maximiliano Firtman: This is professional JS workshop, features you need to know. My name is Maximiliano Firtman. I can go by Max. That's okay. Firt on many social networks or Firtman, Firt or Firtman. So it depends so on X I'm Firt, on GitHub Firtman, my last name. Let me go really quickly about my experience.

[00:00:19]
So I am from Argentina. So I live in Buenos Aires and I'm a mobile web developer. So I have been doing website since forever, actually, but really from 1996. And also mobile apps since 2001 before the iPhone, before the Android, BlackBerry, Nokia, and so on. But HTML in particular since 1996 and JavaScript since 1998.

[00:00:43]
And I have developed more than 150 web apps that were deployed at some time in the past or in the present. And I'm also an author. So I authored 13 books and more than 70 courses, a lot of courses here at Frontend Masters, and a lot of books Books in English, and also in other languages with translations, actually.

[00:01:04]
And most of my books are currently around the web and the mobile space sometimes web performance and so on. The last kind of book that I author is Learn PWA, that is free on web.dev. Web.dev, it's from the Google Chrome team. It's just on progressive web apps. And at Frontend Masters, you will find a lot of content that I authored on Frontend, mobile apps, Swift, Kotlin, Dart, and Flutter, and also some backend courses, including PHP and Go.

[00:01:41]
So, what is for this workshop? So we will actually talk about JavaScript and professional features that you need to know. Let's talk about the latest version of JavaScript. Actually, we'll talk about something known as ECMAScript that some of you may already know, but some of you may have not really understood what's going on, what's ECMAScript, okay?

[00:02:04]
So we'll talk about ECMAScript, the versions of ECMAScript available. We will do a recap of ES6 or ECMAScript 6 version, that at this point, most web developers know at least some of the features. So we will do a recap of that. So we are on the same page.

[00:02:23]
And after that, we will start talking about the new stuff. And we will organize those new topics by category. So first talking about language enhancements. So things that we have new operators, for example, that we have or new syntax that we have available in JavaScript for some specific purposes.

[00:02:46]
Then we will get into array and collections. So what do we have new? We have new collections. We have also new ways to work with collections, new methods available. So we will talk about that. Then get into async programming. So probably you have already worked with promises, but we'll do a recap of promises and also the new things that we have to work with promises.

[00:03:11]
And by the way, when we're talking about JavaScript here today, we're not just talking about client side. We can also be talking about the server side as well with Node.js or with other framework. So actually, we are talking about the language, JavaScript, and not one particular platform. And then we will end the day with some advanced techniques and balance ideas that might not be suitable for all of the projects.

[00:03:38]
They are for very specific situations. But anyway, they are there today in the language. So prerequisites for this workshop, just basic JavaScript experience. So if you have ever played with Node.js scripts or JavaScript client-side or React or Angular or even TypeScript, you're good to go. Some OOP experience is good.

[00:03:59]
I mean, if you know what a class is, inheritance you understand the basic concepts. And also for today, just a web browser. That's the only thing you need, not even a code editor, okay? So I will give you a URL later to where we are. We will follow along the course, the workshop with the new stuff that we have available in JavaScript.

[00:04:21]
So actually, that's the site, it's firtman.github.io/projs, that's just an online editor where we will be covering most of the stuff that we have today in JavaScript.

