[00:00:00]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we're gonna start off with a quick recap on where we are in our investigation so far. Really, we've just gotten started, but we've learned that things aren't always as they seem. What was an example of things being a little bit different than we expected?
>> Speaker 2: A raise in objects?

[00:00:21]

>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, a raise in objects, that was a big one. Anything else that comes to mind?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No, that's the one I was asking for. Cool, so our detective team, we're here working together, we have a lot of skills and working with and manipulating data, and we're just getting better and better by the minute really.

[00:00:44]
And, our team of elves, who are secretly helping us out, were really hard at work last night. And Justin, we have some data that they scraped from some video footage at the mansion where Mr. Body, is thought to have been murdered. And we have this object of dat, luckily our data scrapers are also JavaScript programmers.

[00:01:14]
We only associate with people who program in JavaScript, so we choose our team wisely. So we have this data to get us started. And now let's just kick off with a quick exercise, where we're gonna filter through this data, and we wanna figure out who was present in this video footage, at the mansion the night of the murder.

[00:01:37]
So what is filter? Has anyone used filter before in underscore or low dash? A couple of people. So, filter is a function that takes an array in a callback. And it is going to return a new array, this is similar to map, its going to return a new array that will contain, this is the important part of filters that it will only contain the values that return true from the callback.

[00:02:06]
So the callback has to return a boolean, either true or false. If that callback returns true, then we're going to save it to the array. If not, we won't. So, with map, when we loop through all of the items in our list, we returned an array that was at the same length, right?

[00:02:26]
Every time. With filter that's not always true, filter can be shorter than the original array. It really depends on our callback function and if it's returning true or false. We also call this particular kind of callback function a truth test. Yeah.

