[00:00:00]
>> Great, let's move on to the analysis part of situation analysis. So, in many ways, what we've been doing up until now is just absorbing information. Now we're gonna synthesize that information and make some decisions about what it means and what's relevant to our strategy. Okay? So a findings report is a record of all the information you learned during discovery.

[00:00:22]
And we used to deliver findings reports and not analyses. And when we would do the findings report, we would deliver here's what we heard and the client would go. Well, yeah, we know all that because we're the ones that told it to you what use is this? We're like, well, it's all together and they're like, we want to know what you think about it.

[00:00:38]
Right? So this is our feedback on around what it is that we think is important and why. So we'll pull out themes, for example that we heard a lot of people say that there's not enough time to create the amount of content that is currently required on the website.

[00:00:57]
Or we heard people say that they are worried that the content isn't appropriately structured to be able to be managed by the new mobile app that we are launching that is supposed to give a superior experience, whatever, okay. All right. So we're gonna try out this framework. So I don't know if you guys have ever done a SWOT analysis yet, or at all.

[00:01:23]
There are only a very few sort of traditional consulting tools that I use that I find a value I find a lot of them are just kind of crank out a bunch of crap, but this one is actually really good. Where it helps you identify strengths, opportunities, weaknesses and threats, although I just noticed that opportunities and weaknesses are swapped in the labels there, that is a terrible content strategy.

[00:01:46]
All right, so strengths provide an area to list everything done right, either individually or as an organization with content. Okay, that's how we adapt it. Weaknesses are aspects of your business that detract from the value you offer place you're at a competitive disadvantage regarding content. Opportunities are factors that represent reasons your business is likely, reasons within content or reasons that your content is likely to prosper.

[00:02:12]
In fact, if you would just replace business with content, then I think that that works throughout here. Threats include external factors beyond your control that can place your strategy or content at risk. You have no control over these. Okay, so thinking about content strengths, content weaknesses, content opportunities and content threats can really assist with sort of getting out okay, from a strategic perspective, what should we focus on to make our content better?

[00:02:39]
Okay? See all these nice moving things. Okay. So for example, weakness, you're creating half as much content for your primary audience as you are for less important audiences, okay? So you are ignoring your primary audience and really trying hard to cater to your secondary audiences. Threat or risks, misuse of writings resources.

[00:03:06]
Perception that you don't care as much about the primary audience, or the primary audience is unable to find content relevant to them. The opportunity is to do user research, we find that this is often an opportunity that we offer up in our analyses to better understand users needs along the customer journey.

[00:03:23]
So that you can better allocate your resources. Make sense? Okay, so what I'd like to have you do is, and you can take several steps back, you can think about either content that exists within your product or website. You can think about content on a certain site that you go to regularly that you wish were better.

[00:03:51]
Think about content on your own site. And what I'd like you to do is just draw the graph for strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats, and try to answer some of these questions. Does everybody have sample content that they can think of that they can use to sort of analyze like this?

[00:04:11]
Or does somebody need a recommendation on a website? Okay, I'm gonna assume you all have some sample content then. So I'd like to go ahead and take about 10 minutes and have you guys think through strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats around content quality or process.

