[00:00:00]
>> Okay, so we are coming up on how do we know if we have been successful as content strategists here. And this is where we begin to talk about targets, which are quantitative or qualitative data, that measure whether or not our objectives have been achieved. How many of you all have performance targets?

[00:00:19]
Besides, I already have asked this question and you said it was delivery for example. So, okay, having targets and knowing what you're being measured, what your performance is being measured by beyond just I got this stuff done, can be really useful. And that's where asking for that kind of vision mission goals strategy framework can help.

[00:00:39]
It's where you begin to understand, like where your contributions are having an impact on bottom line stuff, whether it's customer satisfaction, product user satisfaction. You are working with internal employees on SharePoint whether or not they quit complaining to you [LAUGH] like we were just talking about. So it can be any end audience that our content is having an impact on.

[00:01:07]
So here are a bunch of sample metrics, if the KPI is a Key Performance Indicator, and if the business key performance indicator is acquiring new members, then content priorities are demonstrating the value. In this instance, we're talking about a nonprofit association provides for professionals just entering the professional industry.

[00:01:29]
And describing the benefits of becoming an associated member, if those are our content priorities within a page or a section of the website, what are the metrics that we can use to describe success. We can see who's signing up in the website. We can measure top houses sign up page.

[00:01:49]
We can make sure that we've got clear membership related calls to action where they're appropriate. We can measure messaging about the value for early career professionals, we can measure user satisfaction with our website content. We can measure user comprehension of benefits, membership benefits. In here we have whether it is quantitative, which is it's basically, yes or no, one or zero, right?

[00:02:15]
Or qualitative, where we are actually getting personal or personalized input that is objective, methods, how is it that we're accessing this metric and measuring it and how often are we measuring it? So this would be an example metrics plan associated with content performance. Okay? Wouldn't it be lovely to have this?

[00:02:39]
I don't know very many organizations that have something like this, but this is part of what we call governance. Okay, this is part of how somebody owns this, and owns the performance measurement for content and is continually providing this information as a way to shape and prioritize any kind of improvements or iterations.

[00:03:01]
Okay. Okay, this is the last exercise I was gonna have you guys do, which is heuristic key performance indicator, a business goal that you can influence with content. What I'd like to have you do instead just to get you into this mindset, is let's make it a little bit broader from content.

[00:03:24]
And let's have you think about your job activities, whatever your priority roles are within your organization and how can you influence a primary business goal or key performance indicator with your activities, with your role. Like why do you exist? Within your client team or organization or how wide do you, what kind of a role do you want to play within an organization, where you can have a direct impact on a business goal or KPI, so.

[00:03:54]
And then I'd like you to think about sort of either content or design or code objectives, that will help you influence the goal or the KPI that you've listed. So can we just take a minute, this will be a nice thing to send you guys off with, is to sort of continually look for that meaning within your work and to understand how and why you exist at your organization.

[00:04:15]
How you want the role that you want to play within a client team or organization. And kind of get this information down, at least just to get your brains thinking in this method. Okay, if you're able to do it from a perspective of content, awesome, that's great. But I just wanna open it up a little bit for you, recognizing that not everybody is primary roles is content here.

