[00:00:00]
>> All right, so our mission was to get comfortable with the timer and interval, I think we're all pros at this point. And then the idea of subscribing, unsubscribing to observables. Now, we talked about this before we led into this which is, we're gonna have to do things like store the observable, kind of in the module scope, kinda like the global scope, because we don't have the tools to kind of start and stop.

[00:00:28]
I talked a big game with generators, which kind of this is in this case, right? Generating a number at a regular interval, and again, we can start, we can stop, and we can skip, and we can switch between them, we can do all that. Again, we have not put that all together in our tool set yet.

[00:00:43]
So our goal right now is just to get comfortable subscribing, unsubscribing, dealing with the idea that we could have events coming from our stream of observable bands coming from a button, setting all that up. And then we'll begin to kind of refine it and refactor it as we go along.

[00:01:01]
So here we have a basic counter. And what we wanna do is start by basically listening to stuff on that. We wanna subscribe to events that come from Start button, we wanna subscribe to events that come from the Pause button. So in this case, we will say, Start, Subscribe, I'll pass that in a function, and in this case, we will go ahead and we'll create one up here.

[00:01:42]
And we'll say when we, go ahead and we start, we'll set the interval. And we'll subscribe to it as well. And in this case, we're going to call setCount and we need the dollar sign. And here, well, we'll actually make an interval in this case. I will subscribe to it.

[00:02:14]
And when they hit the Pause button, We'll go ahead and we will, Right, and so we should have that in place. And now we have this and let's go ahead and let's try it out, and it iterates every second. Now we can pause it. And it starts over cuz we get a brand new observable, each time we're creating a new interval observable, it starts in the same place.

[00:02:53]
Now, this in this case is technically our subscription because this is creating the observable, and we have Subscribe up here, right? So really, what we could do is say, I want one observable. And then we'll store the subscription. And so, take the same observable, And we'll subscribe and unsubscribe from it.

[00:03:32]
And it feels a little weird with the fact that we're storing this up here, but it's also not totally dissimilar from the thing we might store. We might hold on to a subscription when React mounts that component we might subscribe, when the component is about to unmount, we might unsubscribe from it.

[00:03:47]
Use of fact, Angular has built-in syntax for this, will wrap it slightly to get it to both subscribe and unsubscribe as well. And we've got the subscription, now it'd be great if we could actually kind of just take the different events coming from the buttons and handle this all internally in our observable stream.

[00:04:08]
We're not totally there yet, but we should be able to do it not too long from now.

