[00:00:00]
>> Melkey: But I want to finish up more advanced data structures with Go. And here, I wanna start introducing us to custom data structures, which will be structs and pointer. And talk about a lot of more intricate things that maybe are native to Go, as opposed to these control structures, which are pretty common to other programming languages.

[00:00:24]
So what I'm going to do is I'm gonna remove the functions here, okay? And now we have func main, we have our import. I wanted to I want to talk about structs. So, structs, I've briefly mentioned them a few times, struct stand for structure, okay? And the textbook definition of a struct is a data type that can hold data in your app and pass it around along your application, okay?

[00:00:56]
It holds data and you can use it across your app. That's kind of, a very bare-bone definition of a struct. But it has a lot more versatility, power behind it than just that definition. So for example, structs were created for a bunch of different reasons in Go. It's kind of, the author's original answer to object-oriented programming, cuz it's not in Go.

[00:01:20]
Go has this concept of interfaces and structs that remove the necessity for object-oriented programming. But you can see, if you come from an object-oriented programming language, you can see where structs kind of play a role in solving that issue. So here, I'm gonna create a struct called a person.

[00:01:42]
So to define a struct we'll do type, then the name of the struct. So our struct can be person, and then the keyword struct, followed by curly braces. Now, if you notice, if we ignore this compiler yelling at us for the unused format, our compiler does not yell though we have person defined and not used.

[00:02:02]
Because what is literally happening is we are defining a new type. Person is a struct, but it is also a type. We now have the ability to use person types across our application. Which means we can define functions that take persons as arguments. We can write functions that return persons as arguments.

[00:02:21]
We can use persons as an argument that we have made. It is our custom data type, okay? So obviously, with a person, let's go ahead and create a person, right? So let's go ahead and just do person, to create and use our struct, we can use the struct name.

[00:02:37]
So person, followed by the curly braces, and then the explicit field. So we can put, oops, kinda ahead of myself here, but the person struck, we can put a name, so the name of the field, then the type. So a string, okay, and then we put age and int.

[00:02:56]
So our person struck now has two fields, Name and Age. And it could have multiple fields. It could have many, many fields, right? Of all different types. It could have a struct as a type as well. So we have name and age. And if we wanna use this, we can do our Person and then Name.

[00:03:15]
We can say something like John, okay? And an age we'll say 25, okay? So now we have this person, it's not declared, but we can do fmt.Printf, this is our person, and we can use our format specifier. But here you have two options, so you can use the modulo v, all right, don't forget to break the line.

[00:03:39]
You can put person. If we save this, I'm gonna clear my terminal here. If we save that and run this, you can see this is our person, John 25, great. But if you wanna be a little bit more explicit and showcase the values of your struct, you can prepend a plus symbol in front of the v.

[00:04:03]
So now when you run it, you can see that our person shrug now also demonstrates the field names associated to it. So it's a level of how explicit you want to be in the variable declaration. There's also something called anonymous structs. So here we have a not anonymous struct, it's a defined struct.

[00:04:24]
It's person, we know now it's a struct, we can use it however many times we want. We can also have anonymous structs. We can have something like employee, and in here we can define the struct in place. Struct, one set of brackecks, a second set of brackets, curly brackets, to be specific.

[00:04:43]
The first set here determines the fields of the struct, okay? So here we'll put name string and something like id int, and then the second set of brackets fill those fields in, we actually provide values for those field. So we can do name, Alice, and we can do id, 123.

[00:05:07]
And this is what's called an anonymous struct, these have very, very powerful use cases, especially when we get into testing, okay? We'll see when we get into our testing module, how we make use of anonymous structs for handling our test cases in our application. And we can use this as well, right, fmt.Println, and you can say this is employee, right?

[00:05:29]
I'm being a little lazy with the Println, but you can go ahead and use format specifiers. That's totally fine. So you can see here, if you run it, we now have our person struct, and our anonymous employee struck as well.
>> Speaker 2: Are structs reference or value semantics? Do they get copied when you're passing them around?

[00:05:49]

>> Melkey: Yeah, great question. Everything in Go, you always ask one question ahead, I love it, in Go everything is passed by value. It explicitly states something as referenced, right? So, that spoils the next part of the next thing, but when we pass even a struct, we are passing a copy of it into our function.

[00:06:11]
And that copy value of our struct will only exist in the scope of the function. And so, once that function executes the memory is released from the allocated struct. But you can pass structs by reference and then modifications will persist, which I'll show you. We are going to continue on with structs.

[00:06:31]
So we showcased anonymous structs, we've showcased a defined struct, our person struct above, and here we're going to define two more structs, just so I can demonstrate, nested structs. You will probably see this in a code, basically, right? But here, let's say we have type address, it's going to be a struct.

[00:06:54]
I'm gonna make sure I type that correctly.
>> Speaker 3: Just a question about, when would you wanna avoid nested structs?
>> Melkey: When you want to avoid nested, so, essentially, there isn't one reason to avoid them or not. However, like I was saying earlier, Go passes things by value. So we make copies of everything.

[00:07:16]
So if you know in your code base, if you have a giant struct that has many nested fields, many nested trucks, and it continuous passing that whole thing by copy. You're probably not exerting the best memory practices there, so you may want to avoid that. You might wanna restructure and consider if you wanna use a nested truck at all.

[00:07:39]
That's still one of the main things I can think of for when to not nest a struct, is passing it down and making copies of it. All right, let's continue. So we have this type address struct, let's just say this has a street string. I'm gonna keep it simple.

[00:07:53]
Let's just say city also a string. And let's say we have another struct, which we'll define as contact. So type contact is gonna be a struct, like so. We'll save the name of this new contact. We'll say it's a string. And we can put address as our address struct, like so.

[00:08:12]
And then phone string, all right? So here we have a second struct defined with a nested struct type. And again, it's not initiated. We don't have a contact just yet, but we can do contact and create the contact struct type. We put our name, let's say, Mark, okay?

[00:08:33]
And then for address here, with the address struct just like this, we kind of put it inside the definition of the parent struct that we have, we can say street. We can say is 123, Main Street. And in city, we can put something like, any town, okay? And one thing I forgot to mention, but we can actually omit fields in our struct.

[00:08:59]
So here, if you wanna create this new contact without actually passing in the phone, that's completely fine. And again, this is due to zero values and the default values. So there's always a fallback to a type that is not explicitly defined, question.
>> Speaker 4: Are types scoped to the function block they're declared in, and can you redeclare types from other blocks?

[00:09:20]

>> Melkey: No, you cannot redeclare a type in functions. Once you have a type defined, that's the type. You cannot redefine them within the function block or without. So the signature of the function has to adhere to the function signature. Even if you have a variable declared in the function, you cannot redeclare the variable as a different type.

