[00:00:00]
>> Melkey: So we just finished, kinda doing some finishing touches on our workout store. And so in the following part of the course, the kinda final parts, we're gonna go through all of the different scenarios of curling, all of the endpoints that we have. So if you see in the post notes.txt underneath section 3.5 we have a ton of different curls that we're gonna be exploring here, okay?

[00:00:30]
So if you wanna follow along, this is what we're going to be doing. And I'm gonna be on annotating everything that I do. So first, let's go ahead and quickly just tear down and tear up the Go server. So Go run main.go. Any obvious issues? No, it's still on version 5, which is great.

[00:00:47]
The next part, we still have Docker Compose running, so our DB is running. And we still have PL/SQL, okay? So again, we can check select all from workouts. Everything's fairly empty. Select all from users, we have two users, John and Jack, which we will not be caring about, okay?

[00:01:07]
We're gonna be making some brand new users. We can still use them if you want, but I'm gonna prefer to just create new ones just to check if everything works as it should. I'm gonna make this new terminal, I'm gonna clear my terminal. And then the first request I'm gonna be making is creating a new user.

[00:01:26]
So if we go back into the section 3.5, there's this curl request here to create a new user. This one has this John Doe, I'm gonna just change this. Let's change this to Melkey, all right? And let's change this to melkey@example.com. Let's go ahead and grab this. Go back here.

[00:01:49]
If we paste it, we now have our Melkey user, okay? Nothing should be, this is good. We know we at least haven't regressed, right? There's nothing that mess this up for us. Next thing is now we know the username, Melkey. I'm gonna go back to the post here, and the second curl request we have is to authenticate.

[00:02:12]
I'm gonna go ahead and grab this. I'm gonna go over here. I'm gonna paste it. I'm gonna make some changes so it's no longer username John Doe, it's gonna be username Melkey, all right? Press enter, we have our auth token. Now, what I'm gonna do is I'm just gonna quickly, just copy this auth token and go back here.

[00:02:33]
I'm gonna make another separate note that just says text or tokens.txt, you don't need to necessarily do this, but to demonstrate and have user, Melkey, and token here, okay? So this is a token associated with Melkey. It's a lot for 24 hours. It's something that we can control.

[00:02:55]
We can again double check, select all from tokens, there you go. User_id 3, that's Melkey, expires this time. The scope is authentication and it's hashed, cool. We also already seen this, it's nothing really new to us, okay? Now, if I go back to post nose, you should see that we have this other request to create a workout, okay?

[00:03:21]
So I'm gonna go ahead and just copy this, I'm gonna go over here, I'm gonna paste this. Now, if I run it with this bearer, this is a complete different token, this token is not the one I just copied over here. They're very different, right? This one begins RV7, and this is one that I stored from many moons ago.

[00:03:42]
So, if I run this token expired or invalid, good, okay? So we have some little protection for people trying to create workouts that they can't, their token expired or the permissions changed. So I rerun that exact same command, but this time I changed the bearer from that old random one that's in post notes.txt file, and just bear with me as I go ahead and delete this, okay?

[00:04:09]
If I go back here, I'm gonna go grab the one that starts with RV7, the one we just saw me create. If I send this, now we have this new workout, okay? So workout id 3, user_id 3. Jogging, I'm not a big fan of jogging. Select all from workouts.

[00:04:29]
Can see here now my morning cardio. It belongs to me. Select all from work out_entries. You can see that we have jogging. Okay, cool. So, that's pretty nice, that's pretty cool. We have a way to allow people who are logged in correctly to make modifications. All right, that's that's pretty awesome.

[00:04:54]
Now that we know this workout belongs to me, what I'm going to do is I'm gonna make a new user. Let's go all the way back to our post_notes, and let's go here. Again, this is a request to create a user, right? So I've already created username, Melkey.

[00:05:11]
If I paste this, let's go ahead and make a new username. We're gonna call this one Dustin, all right? It's gonna be dustin@example.com, okay? If I click enter, again, we know this works. We have our new user, Dustin, cool. And let's give Dustin a token. So let's authenticate, let's grab this.

[00:05:37]

>> Melkey: You go over here, username, let's just put Dustin here.
>> Melkey: Cool, we have the new auth token that belongs to Dustin. Now let's grab this, let's go back here into the tokens.txt note to remove this annoying line. So now user, this one belongs to Dustin, and their token is like that, okay?

[00:06:06]
So two very different tokens. One is RV7, the other one's SYL. So the thing I want to validate is, can Dustin update my workout or can Dustin delete my workout, right? If he can, everything we just did, we have to kinda go back and fix it. It's gonna suck.

[00:06:22]
However, if he can't, then we know that we have everything working accordingly, right? We've already validated that anonymous users can't do things that they're not allowed to do. We've already validated the validity of tokens, now we need to make sure, do we check that owners truly can update an owner's workout?

[00:06:40]
So here, and quickly clear this, just so we can have more room. Go back to post notes. And then here we should have this pull request right here. So the last scroll request in that file. I'm gonna go ahead and copy this. I'm gonna paste it. Few things we need to change.

[00:06:59]
So here, instead of workout 6, I believe if we go here, it is what? Select all from workouts, it is workouts 3, okay? So the ID of that workout is 3. You quickly replace this. [COUGH] And you can see the content of the body is updated cardio. So instead of jogging I realized I was actually walking.

[00:07:24]
And over here, I'm gonna bring back Dustin's token credentials. And we know Dustin did not create this workout, the initial work, he did not create workout 3. So if I paste this and I run this, you're not authorized to update this workout, right? Which is expected, because now we actually have the logic that extracts the token.

[00:07:46]
We know who the user belongs to. And if we kind of go back and remove Dustin's SYL token, and we go over here and grab Melkey's token, that is definitely not expired. Go here and paste it. And if we run this, we now have updated the cardio and we can validate this from select all from workouts.

[00:08:12]
And now it says updated cardio, a relaxed 45-minute walk after dinner. And so that's it.

