[00:00:00]
>> Let's say it was really important that I'm here in the root directory and I really wanted to make that high folder, how would I do it? Well the only user that can do it is the super user. The super user, is also the other name for the the root user, so you'll hear me use those two interchangeably.

[00:00:20]
So the way that I could do that, is I could come in and say Sudo, which is basically doing super user do mkdir hi. So now, because I ran sudo, basically, which means temporarily, for one command, switch me into super-user, do something and then come back. So now you can see in here I have this high directory.

[00:00:55]
And you can see the user that did it was wherever that went here, root So just to kind of prove my point, if I say sudo who am I? What do you think it's gonna say? Root, right? Because for that one command, I'm root, but now if I run, who am I again?

[00:01:16]
I'm going to be Ubuntu. So that's what sudo does is it switches us quickly into root, you do one thing and then you're out. That's because Ubuntu has super user privileges. That means that Ubuntu can run things as root. But not everything is run as root by default, which is kind of that safeguard.

[00:01:37]
When I tried that rm -rf it wouldn't have let me do that because Ubuntu is not privileged to do this despite the fact that you've been to could if I had done a sudo so it makes sense? Cool, so that's why you don't just always Run as root.

[00:01:55]
Like don't just hang out as root, that's a terrible idea, because you're gonna make mistakes. And not being the root user will save you from some of those dumb mistakes that you're gonna do. Cuz it is possible, I can say sudo switch users, and look who I am now.

[00:02:13]
I am the root user now. I have all power. That's a terrible idea. So don't hang out as a super user so in order to do that, you can just say exit. And that will get you out of your session as the root user. I would also like to point out that sudo is a very adorable dog.

[00:02:35]
That's actually Sarah Drown's dog. I asked her if I could put a picture of sudo in here. Cuz the dog is hilarious, and it also if you go over to her house, it's funny to hear her say Sudo sit. Cuz like telling it's like super user, tell the dog to sit out makes me laugh.

[00:02:55]
And that's from, yeah, Sarah Jasmine who's another teacher in front of masters she does the view courses and she's really awesome. This is another one makes me laugh, make me a sandwich. What, make it yourself. Sudo make me a sandwich. Okay. That's another XKCD, that's another famous one.

[00:03:17]
Okay, so Let's go ahead and yeah, it's a bit like Simon says, right? It won't do until you tell it's Simon says delete the root directory, right?
>> Yeah On your left part [INAUDIBLE] other side, yeah.
>> Got it? Just a second, my stylist, is gonna come consult.

[00:03:54]
This is normal, this happens all the time, I just take John everywhere with me. Middle of my zoom calls, he's just fixing my hair. All right. Okay, so let's make a new user, just to show you kind of how it's done. Like, the reason why I would create a new user is like I said, if I was going to do like a some sort of job.

[00:04:34]
Or a task that was going to run like every day. And that task was very scoped to like it works on this one folder and does this one thing and then it finishes. I would make a new user just for that task that could only accomplish that task and can do literally nothing else.

[00:04:48]
That would be a good reason to make a new user. So Ubuntu can't make any new users. But root can we have to switch to root. The other thing I was gonna mention about Ubuntu is normally, when you do sudo, so if I say sudo echo hi, which, there's no reason to sudo there, right?

[00:05:11]
Normally, it asks you to enter your password when you enter sudo. Multipass is a password list root user, so it actually doesn't make you do it. But normally you have to enter it. So we'll I'll show you that here in just a second. But if that's why that feels weird, if that feels weird to you.

[00:05:31]
All right, so we're going to do sudo user add Brian or you can put whatever you want there, I'm just going to put Brian. Okay, and that created a brand new user and I'm going to do sudo Pass WD which is gonna allow me to set the user for the, the password for Brian.

[00:05:47]
And it's gonna make me enter a new password, I'm gonna put something very simple and easy to remember is asdf. Asdf, which is the only password that I ever use. And now I'm going to say switch users, which is what su does to Brian, that's gonna make me into my password.

[00:06:09]
And now, I am Brian. Who am I? Brian. So, that's about it that all you need to do to enter is Brian. Actually, I think I'm in a different shell right now. No, I don't know. But the reason why the prompt there and something like that is we haven't set up a bunch of stuff like the login shell and all that kind of stuff.

[00:06:39]
But that's how you create a new user. And then you would go about adding like them to be in the right permissions to this kind of stuff. And actually, if I say sudo echo hi, If I say STF it's gonna say, Brian is not authorized to do sudo, this incident will be reported.

[00:06:56]
That's the line that always made me laugh. And then I actually found an excelity about it. And it says right there, Rob is not in the sudo's file, this incident will be reported. Hey, who does the sudo report incidents to? And she's like, I never looked, and it's reporting to Santa Claus.

[00:07:16]
[LAUGH] I don't know, made me laugh. So I actually looked it up where it goes, there's actually like a mailbox cuz there's like a internal mail system on Linux. And it gets reported to like an admin in their mailbox and someone tried to do a sudo that they couldn't do.

[00:07:33]
I've literally in the history of like all of my schooling and all of my learning to code and all my production market companies. No one has ever mentioned this file at all, so don't worry if it says that this incident will be reported. That was very intimidating the first time I saw it in the computer lab, though.

[00:07:54]

>> Okay, so Brian can't sudo, but what if we wanna make it so Brian could sudo? Well, that can be done so I'm gonna exit out of this session with Brian, so I'm gonna go back to Ubuntu. Cuz Ubuntu does have sudo privileges, it's just that Brian doesn't.

[00:08:18]
So, we have to, use Groups. So Groups are another construct within Linux that allow you to add privileges to entire groups of users. This is useful because like imagine you run a server and that server has 100 users on it. And you have 50 admins and 50 non-admins.

[00:08:45]
And let's say you wanted to add a new privilege to the admins that they are now able to read to this one directory. You would either have to go and add that privilege individually 50 times to each user. Or if you use groups, you could just add at once to one set a group or one group.

[00:09:01]
And then everyone inside of that group would get all the privileges. So it just makes it easier to add and manage all those people. So there's a bunch of reasons you could create a readers group and the readers group has access to read all the files, but they can't write to it.

[00:09:17]
And you could have another writers group and they can write to it, maybe not read from it, I don't know. But you can kind of manage all the privileges individually that way. So, if you want to add Brian to that group, what we can do is we can run this command right here, usermod and let's actually just put it in right here.

[00:09:47]
And so you do sudo usermod and you can do --append --groups or you can just do -aG for the shorthand. Sudo Brian, so what this is going to do is it's going to add a new group to Brian. And he's going to be added to the sudo group and the sudo group is allowed to sudo.

[00:10:16]
So now if I say sudo or FSA switch users to Brian, I enter that password and so now who am I? Here and I say sudo who am I? I have to enter my password root. So by adding Brian to that pseudo group, Brian is now able to do sudo things.

[00:10:43]
Does that make sense? So you can create your own groups, honestly, if you ask me, how often do I create my own groups? The answer to that question would be never. Okay, I almost never do it, because I don't manage flocks of Ubuntu servers or anything like that.

[00:10:59]
But I've had to add people to the sudo users before, so that's why I show you how to do that.

