[00:00:00]
>> First of all congratulations for sitting through so much of a bash course like that, and of itself deserves a medal. It's not the most exciting topic, Bash has been around forever. It's kind of a tool that everyone just kind of assumes you know. And so, like if you go into an interview, they're not gonna ask you a bunch of bash questions, because one, they probably don't know themselves.

[00:00:18]
And two, it's just not the most exciting shiny technology. But I just had this personal strong opinion that, when you have these tools that you're interacting with on a very consistent basis, as a developer often will do with a command line. It's worth the time to invest in these tools and figure out how to be more productive with them.

[00:00:38]
Because if you can learn how to be two seconds faster, but you learn that very early in your career, you can say the hours over your entire career just by kind of learning and investing in these tools. And honestly, I think it's kind of fun, right? It's kind of fun to automate these tasks.

[00:00:52]
It was such a pain in the ass before, but now you can do really cool things with them. So, everything that I taught you was within the context of bash and your boon to. But I just wanted to really hit home that if I go back over to Mac, now I'm in Mac land, right?

[00:01:11]
All these things, I just did crontab, right? All this stuff still applies to Mac OS, almost all of it. Like verbatim, you could copy and paste from my course into Mac and it would still work, because I'm using zsh here, zsh and bash are largest compatible. And really smart people made Mac OS relatively compatible with the same way that Linux is.

[00:01:38]
So everything that I just taught you will work very, very well with Mac, if not, I can't even think of anything that wouldn't work the same way. So, that's one thing to keep in mind. As well as PowerShell, a lot of this will works with PowerShell. Certainly all of the paradigms I showed you with PowerShell work exactly the same, it's just like the specific syntax will be a little bit different.

[00:02:02]
And I'll be honest with you, PowerShell is a lot more pleasant to work with because it's more modern. Microsoft invest a lot into making it a much more modern experience. For example, you get syntax highlighting as you're typing, which is really cool, which you don't get with bash.

[00:02:20]
But things like, I think fish does actually give you syntax highlighting on the fly. But anyway, all that to say, you are now much more apt to hop into PowerShell and feel okay about it. Cool, and then I just wanted to give you some places to go from here.

[00:02:35]
We talked a lot about the command line. And right now I feel pretty confident saying that you are certainly intermediate developers at the very least now with bash. Just based on all the information that I have, you're lucky that the bar here is pretty low, because most people don't know how to use it super well.

[00:02:56]
So, where do we go from here? There's definitely more depth to be gained here on bash. This was definitely a cursory introduction and I missed a lot of, some important concepts, like we didn't talk about symlinks. You might go look up the symlinks, because that is actually a fairly important concept, one that I don't use a ton because it's a pain in the butt.

[00:03:16]
So today you can go get more depth on bash. There's my course on the complete intro to containers, which takes this knowledge that I gave you, and takes it into even further depth that teaches you more about docker and how to do Linux containers. It was actually the inspiration for doing this course, because I wanted to make sure everyone got up to the level that they needed to have on bash, so they felt comfortable doing containers.

[00:03:38]
So that is definitely the intermediate version of this course would be the intro to containers. Get in depth from Nunez agribank. I think I've referenced that a couple of times that'll teach you get specifically which is very command line oriented, full stack front, front end engineers. I think that has a little bit of a crossover with this course as well from my old coworker at Netflix, Jim, but it's amazing.

[00:04:03]
And then I wanna encourage all of you to dig into node.js because it's a very huge passion of mine. And I would be upset if literally anyone else taught that course in Frontend of masters except Scott Moss, because he's one, just the best, most entertaining teacher, and just the nicest guy in general.

[00:04:20]
So definitely go check out the introduction to node from Scott. So thanks again, thanks for sticking through it. I'm super appreciative, I know for a Masters is appreciative all the people that watch the courses and all the subscribers as I am. So take this knowledge, go out and make the world a little bit better place, and hopefully it makes it a bit happier.

[00:04:39]
So thank you and thanks for sticking through the course with me.
>> [APPLAUSE]

