[00:00:00]
>> Kyle Simpson: I know it was a lot to throw at you in this workshop. I promised you that we were gonna go deep with this material so hopefully you feel like you got a lot to chew on. I wanna leave you with this last thought. If, for whatever crazy reason, you've chosen to make JavaScript part of your career at this point.

[00:00:19]
Doesn't it make to sense to know your JavaScript?
>> Kyle Simpson: Hopefully you feel empowered now to ask deeper questions about the code that you're doing. If nothing else that you get from this course, I hope what you get is to have an uncommon level of curiosity to ask why and how does that work?

[00:00:37]
And more importantly, once I know how it works, how do I use it to my advantage? Following the cargo cult that everybody else has done, it gets you to some local maximum but it doesn't really get you to deep understanding of JavaScript. I didn't have any magical path to that.

[00:00:54]
My path to understanding JavaScript was asking those questions, and asking more questions, and asking more questions.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's been an honor to teach this course to you. I appreciate you all sticking in there and listening and all the great questions and interaction. Thank you for those of you that were online and stuck around for us.

[00:01:12]
I just wanna encourage you, don't let this be the end of your learning about JavaScript, let it be the beginning. And if there's anything that I can do to help you in that path of learning JavaScript, you have my contact info. My email's right there in the slides.

[00:01:25]
Feel free to reach out because I love helping people. I get emails all the time from people. I love to help. A couple of last little plugs about myself. I teach for a living, obviously. If your company would love to have me come and teach, if you think that would be useful, I hope you'll reach out cuz I love to come and teach.

[00:01:41]
I fly all over the world all the time, teaching corporate workshops like the one we've gone through. And I'm also working on an education startup. A developer education EdTech startup called DevGo. It's gonna provide ongoing mentoring in the workplace for software developers. If that sounds interesting, I hope you'll reach out.

[00:02:00]
Thanks very much for being here. I appreciate it, and we'll see you again.

