[00:00:00]
>> So now that we have Go installed and we're seeing a Hello friend and masters message print down in the console, we're gonna shift gears and talk a little bit about the available documentation and where to find information if you're struggling with any of the Go concepts. So if you go to golang.org, you're gonna see this kinda landing page.

[00:00:17]
And the three links I'd like to call attention to are at the top, you've got documents, packages, and blog. So I'm gonna navigate over to my browser and walk through kind of what's available there for information. So we start with documents. This is going to be a really great resource for that general big picture knowledge about Go.

[00:00:34]
You'll see that there's a getting started information, a tour of Go which is a really great introductory tutorial. An additional kind of like how to write Go code, bigger picture documentation around themes around Go. One of the greatest resources that I think is available for go is this effective go document right here.

[00:00:54]
And so this gives you kind of like the rules around style with Go. How to write effective Go, how you wanted to find variables? Some of the additional information just that isn't super intuitive from reading other API documentation. If you go to packages, this is a giant list of all of the standard library packages that ship with Go.

[00:01:16]
So a lot of the ones we'll see today are the FMT font package. There's strings database, anything that you're gonna to use to write additional Go code will live here in the packages index. And then the blog on the right hand side will be the latest releases and from the Go core team kind of anything that's important to know in the up and coming in the Go language.

[00:01:36]
But a lot of these are gonna be where you can find any opinions or latest updates on, okay, we just released the errors package what's new and exciting? What do you need to know? How do you make it backwards compatible? Some of that more editorial comp information lives in the blog posts.

