[00:00:00]
>> Teacher: How many of you have a LinkedIn profile? Right, keep your hand up. How many of you think it doesn't suck? [LAUGH] So I lost all but two or three of you. So I wanna kinda give you some brief ideas of things to do on LinkedIn, okay? And so judging by the microphone card, here's the deal.

[00:00:22]
Do not, when you leave here or do not when we get finished doing this presentation, walk over to this wall and take this photo.
>> Students: [LAUGH]
>> Teacher: Don't look like you just got arrested. You probably don't want to be your passport photo cuz those always look really like.

[00:00:39]
Have a photo like with you and a city as a backdrop or for those of you who have been here and taking those when I said to you last week. Take photos of you working here, do that for those of you who are online, like the next time you could take a selfie or have your kid, your spouse.

[00:00:58]
You can train your dog, I don't care. But the idea of get a photo of you working and then use that as your LinkedIn profile, use that as your headshot. Usually what happens is people do this photo though and I would suggest I would rather see a photo than not see a photo.

[00:01:15]
But like this on you might as well not have one because you don't look like you. That makes sense? But there is a weird statistic, I think it's 68%. It's like if you have a photo, 68% more likely someone will click on your profile. So if you don't have one, get one.

[00:01:30]
If you have one that you look like you were just arrested, get a different one instead. Get a headline that says here's what I'm looking for. I'm a junior developer looking for an internship. Like be really specific about it like don't make people gas. So happened on the slides for a second.

[00:01:53]
I didn't think about do this until just now something about this on the fly. So if I wanted to find
>> Wait for it.
>> Teacher: Yes, the Python, let's just do that.
>> Teacher: Well, here's one right there, Python developers searching for work. Like that's okay, it's okay to say to folks I am looking for a job, I'm looking for a internship.

[00:02:31]
I am looking to volunteer of the non profit and I know these skills, I want you to do those things, especially now coming out. So what I'm saying to you as I would leave here, I would be thinking about next week and if I'm ready to offer my services in some form or fashion or I'm looking for an internship a part time something.

[00:02:48]
I'm going to say that on my LinkedIn profile, like own it. Software engineering SmartThings doesn't do anything for me as a recruiter. I know you're an engineer in SmartThings, but if I'm trying to recruit, again, actively looking for a job opportunity, senior Python developer at Target. By the way, someone's like it.

[00:03:16]
[LAUGH] I should take a photo of this so I can remember to contact this person. Really, I'm serious. You might think I'm joking but that's how this happens. Let people know you're looking, volunteer, intern. Find a non profit, find a junior developer role, if you don't say it, I'm not gonna know.

[00:03:45]
So fill all the sections, personalizing it whenever you can. So if you are, I wanna talk about this in a few minutes. If you want to send an LinkedIn invite to one of our two fantastic instructors, you can do one of two things. You can just hit like sent, go to connect with them on LinkedIn.

[00:04:04]
And it's gonna send, it's gonna be like so and so wants to connect with you on LinkedIn. [APPLAUSE] Yey, how about, hey, my name is I was at the front end masters bootcamp. I appreciate those three things you taught me, would you accept my invitation? Yes, right? So instead of trying to like spam a bunch, you'll explain to them why you would want to connect with them.

[00:04:26]
And we're gonna to talk more in a little while, but why that will matter. But personalize these things, like take the time to actually invest in trying to get to know someone. Creep on other's profiles. So I'm assuming and I just state all this lies to make this transition easy.

[00:04:41]
I'm assuming that many of you like me have a bit of a narcissistic side. And you're wondering who viewed your profile. We do this all the time. And if you have a free profile or if you have a free version of LinkedIn, you can usually see like the last six to nine of them or whatever it is.

[00:05:01]
What I do though frequently and I hesitate to say this but I call it LinkedIn flirting but not the way you're all gonna laugh and giggle and think it is about. I frequently will go look at a bunch of frontend developer LinkedIn profiles and I'm literally just clicking on them.

[00:05:18]
I will try to remember or I will keep a spreadsheet of those who I clicked on. When they click on my profile back, I now don't have a cold call. I now can reach out to them. Hey, Zach, my name is Paul DeBeddings. I saw that you looked at my LinkedIn profile, I might even put in brackets after I looked at yours.

[00:05:36]
And I wanna reach out to you and talk about an opportunity I have. So if I'm you, if I'm coming on to you, I'm gonna start trying to figure out who are the people I need to connect with three weeks from now, three months from now, a year from now.

[00:05:51]
We're gonna talk about gleaning some of this information out press releases and stories we're seeing online about technology companies. But almost, now I live in a different world, a bunch of technology, a bunch of developers, and a bunch of recruiting HR folks that we're always on LinkedIn, it seems.

[00:06:07]
If you haven't yet been, you will. And for those folks who are listening to this bootcamp and you're overseize, you may not be using LinkedIn. You may be using another tool that's specific to your region, and that's okay. Still all these concepts were still be the same that we're talking about.

[00:06:25]
So I will try frequently give my, I just did today, I said, so working with the company here in town, I sent that co-founders to link in profiles for them to each to click on. Because I'm gonna end up talking to those folks this weekend, I want them to think that the CEOs have interested in them because they do.

[00:06:44]
But now they're gonna see that it came from them versus me. Odds are they're going to be more interested in talking to us about this role because a co-founder of the startup looked at my LinkedIn profile. For us on the job seeking side is the same thing. So start looking at some of these profiles, start picking who you're going to wanna network with a little bit in advance.

[00:07:04]
It's a little bit like even a popcorn trail in the forest. You look at their LinkedIn profile, you follow them on Twitter, you like something that they posted on LinkedIn, send them an invite.

