[00:00:00]
>> All right, and that's basically what I wanted to cover in this course. I set out what I wanted to achieve, I hope everyone that attended the course that's here that's watching live, got some value from this. They've learned how someone today would build a full stack app using tools like React and Node and Postgres and Vercel.

[00:00:19]
This is literally how I would do it if I got hired today at some company that said hey, we need you to build up your employee number one. We need you to built this from scratch that's in full stack web app, this is how I would do it.

[00:00:29]
I would literally do it just like this, I wouldn't think twice about anything else. So, these are the patterns and the tools that I use that's my thought process, hopefully I was able to add some value to your life some way somehow. If not if you feel like the way that I'm doing things are not quite up to par, please let me know I'm willing to learn and get better as well I'm not perfect.

[00:00:50]
Especially now that I'm not even a full time engineer writing code every day so, it just feels weird saying that. But yeah, I love these tools, I love these technologies, I stay current as I can. I still build things on the side, and I still evaluate a lot of code as well.

[00:01:04]
I'm actually looking at people's code more than I actually write code now, because that's just part of diligence and stuff like that. So yeah, hopefully this course was something that, you learned from, and like I said before, feel free to go in here and look at these designs.

[00:01:20]
I mean, there's just so much potential that you can add to this app. I mean, just from the UI side, making it even tighter cleaning it up, down to the play bar with the images and the volume controls. The whole favorite system, the creating a playlist, the search functionality.

[00:01:38]
Prisma actually has really good search mechanisms built into it full text searching, full text search looks like it's in preview mode. But yeah, they have full text search where you can do things like that, it's really cool. So yeah, you can add that search feature, so if you're still okay, this was cool, but yeah I wanna go a little deeper.

[00:01:58]
Keep going with this app just keep making it keep building it, getting it to where you want. And if you wanna show off let me know I would love to see it, send me a link on GitHub put it on code sandbox. Send me a link that you deployed to Vercel, it doesn't matter I would love to see what you got and yeah, thanks for coming.

[00:02:17]

>> [APPLAUSE]

