[00:00:00]
>> The first thing I'm gonna do, I think, is start committing these changes. So I will check out a new branch called progress, and I'm going to add everything here. And we'll say, set up for Dev and create a custom page. All right, so then I'm gonna just push to this steadily as we go.

[00:00:27]
So that If at any point you get stuck, you will be able to head over to this repo here, which just opened in the wrong browser. So let's pull that over this way. Any point you get stuck, you can just pull up this progress branch, and you'll be able to see whatever we're doing.

[00:00:45]
You can pull that down and get back up to date with where we are. So, next up, let's get some custom data into Gatsby. And this is something that I have so much fun with, because it's just a powerful approach. Like you can do some really, really cool things with custom data and Gatsby.

[00:01:07]
And there's some some work that was done between Gatsby one, Gatsby two and now Gatsby three. That took this from being really esoteric and kind of, you had to know a whole bunch about the internals to now. It It feels like, you still have to know what the things are, but it doesn't feel nearly as mentally taxing.

[00:01:30]
I don't feel like I have to know exactly how Gatsby works. I feel like I just need to know these API's, and that is really exciting to me. So, why don't we start up by going into our Gatsby node again, and I want to work with this. Authors and books data.

[00:01:45]
So looking inside these files, I put together like we're gonna build a little book club website today, right? That's our, that's our goal. So I found a few authors and put those into a JSON file. And then I took a few books and these books, I grabbed their ISPN.

[00:02:03]
So that's like a universal identifier, the name of the author's Slug. And whether or not it's part of a series, so like these three are part of a series, these ones are not. And anyways, these are some books, they're good books. If you haven't read them you should.

[00:02:18]
And I want to pull these in, and make these available as custom data types on my Gatsby site. Start this up before we before we get rolling So the the site, when it's in development mode is gonna generate this GraphQL API that we can run. Now it's important to remember this GraphQL layer is only available during.

[00:02:42]
The build time, so it isn't something that you can like query from the client side. But what's nice about it, is that it gives us the ability to kind of explore our data. And as you can see right now, there's not much in here because we haven't added a lot of data.

[00:03:00]
But we can see that, here's all of our pages that we've created. So our custom pages there, our home pages there, the dev 404 which is for during development. If you try to create something that's or try to hit a route that doesn't exist. It'll like give you some hints, which I can show you.

[00:03:15]
Actually, if I go over to like the 404 page, this is their dev 404. So this only shows up in development, it doesn't show up in production. But it's really handy because if you get lost, and you're trying to find a site. You can look here, instead of having to go build a way to dump the data or something like that.

[00:03:36]
So let's get some custom data in. So what I wanna do, is I wanna import my authors and we're gonna get that from. Source, data, authors and then I'm going to duplicate that and we're gonna get our books. So once we have our books, I wanno be able to load up data into Gatsby.

[00:04:01]
And the way that Gatsby does that is through a hook, that it calls source nodes, and source nodes. Is a another API hook, it's a cycle that runs during the build. We can see it up here somewhere. They all happen in order, source and transform nodes is when that one's happening.

[00:04:21]
I don't know, why that one has a different name than like these other ones, that are just called what they are. But, source nodes will give us, an actions object and then it also gives us some helpers that we're gonna need. I wanna be able to create a node ID.

[00:04:34]
We'll talk a little bit about node structure here in a second. And then we also need a content digest, which is a way to determine whether or not the node has changed. Which is really important for making Gatsby build faster. It's part of the caching mechanism so, let's talk about what a node structure is in Gatsby.

[00:04:54]
So, a Gatsby node is going to be an object. And inside of that object, it needs to have some kind of an ID. And, the way that you generally create a node ID, is to just use this helper. And, you can put any string in here as long as it's unique.

[00:05:15]
Then, we need to say whether or not there's a parent node. In a lot of cases, this is gonna be null, but if you're doing something where you want like. You're deriving data from a node. A good example of this, is if you have images in Gatsby, you'll have the file and then underneath the file.

[00:05:32]
You have the child Gatsby sharp or child image sharp, that's a parent relationship. In that case, you would set the parent, and in this one we're not gonna deal with it. Children is also an empty array, there are no child nodes here and then there's this internal block.

[00:05:51]
And these are things, that Gatsby uses to determine whether or not this node has changed. So the first thing we're gonna do is, we're gonna set a type and that can be any arbitrary string. It just needs to be unique, so my custom type or whatever. And then we wanna set what the content is.

[00:06:10]
This one's optional, but it's kind of a nice way to make sure that, you've got like whatever your node content is. And this would be an object, I'll show this in an actual example here in a second. We're just looking at the details and then, you need a content digest.

[00:06:27]
And so what a content digest is, if you've ever seen like a checksum, or other way of validating that files contents match, what they did. At the time of publishing, that's what we're doing here. We're creating a digest of what's inside of this node, so that Gatsby can say, is this the same node that it was before?

[00:06:47]
If so, skip it don't do any work because we know that nothing changed. If the digest did change, then we need to blow this node away and create it fresh because there's new information. If we don't set this, Gatsby will recreate every node, every time and that's gonna slow down our build.

[00:07:03]
So setting this is is very important, and we would do that again by setting like the node content. And you can put whatever you want in here. Like if you only have two fields that are unique, and like one of them is randomly generated, cool, whatever. I don't know why you would have a randomly generated field and data but, you do have that option.

[00:07:24]
You only have to digest what needs to be digested, and you can make the call for what. Needs to change or what should change and when. So, this is the basic structure. And what I wanna do is, I want to create nodes, which will do using a helper from the actions object.

[00:07:44]
This is another nice one. So this one's called create node, and we pull that out of actions. Inside of this, I'm going to then just loop through my authors. And I want to For each of these create a node. So I'm gonna create a node, and it's gonna start by just putting in like the author fields.

[00:08:10]
Because you'll notice down here, these are the fields that are required by Gatsby. I didn't put any data in here, but like I can put whatever I want. Right? And then this is what I'll actually be able to query. Inside of Gatsby as I'd be able to get, my custom type sum, and then that would give me the value of data, right?

[00:08:30]
That's what a node looks like. So I'm dropping in the author, so that we get access to its slug and name. Then we're gonna create an ID, and we're gonna use create node ID, and pass in some kinda of a unique string. So, this is a way to do it that's guaranteed unique like, in the off chance that you had a another section of like people.

[00:08:55]
And you had a people object that included like N.K Jemisin. You wouldn't want a collision where the author, and the people would both have the same slug. So then the data types would collide because they'd have the same ID. This is a way to just, put the type name in there and then you're guaranteed it's going to be unique.

[00:09:14]
Then we're going to set there's no parent. I'm actually just going to copy paste this part, because why type it twice. So here's my parent and children, and then for the internal. Our type is going to be author, our content will be Json stringify author. And the content digest, is gonna be create content digest of author.

[00:09:48]
Okay, so if I get rid of this, Let's just give that a try, right? Let's see how that goes so, I've now created. Theoretically three new nodes inside of Gatsby, cuz we've got three entries in this author object. Alright, so now that this is running, what we should see is when this pops open, we should be able to query for an author type in Gatsby.

[00:10:16]
And remember that's not available now. So without refreshing the page. Here's directory file site, site build meta function page plug in. That's it right? So let me refresh. Hey, there's our author and inside of it, look, we've got filters. We've got the ability to sort, limit skip, and then I can get into my nodes and I can get the name and the slug.

[00:10:40]
And if I query these, look at that, we now have custom data in Gatsby. What a great day.

