[00:00:00]
>> Brian Holt: Hello, and welcome to the complete intro to containers version 2. And I'm Brian Holt, and let's hop into the introduction here.
>> Brian Holt: So this is a course designed to teach you about containers and kind of to mystify what containers are. Describe how they can be useful to you personally, and kind of in your programming journey.

[00:00:24]
And just kinda walk through all the steps of how to build a container, what's in a container, and how they're gonna be useful for you. Containers are just getting more and more important as the years go on. I taught this course first 5 years ago, and I made the prediction that containers would be just more important, and turns out I was right.

[00:00:44]
And I still think, they got more ways to go. So who are you? This course is aimed at developers, so all the examples here will be driven by that kind of that fact. You don't necessarily need to be a super in depth advanced developer to get a lot of use out of this.

[00:01:05]
But I will say that some coding experiences can be super helpful here. There's lots of cool courses on front of masters like intro to web dev, they'll teach you kind of those basic skills. And then the other thing I'll say that will be helpful is some Linux experience.

[00:01:20]
So a lot of this course is taught on the command line and using Linux. So I do have another course called Complete Intro to Linux on the Command line. Also, and Fronted Masters, that's available if you need a bit of a catch up right there. There is alot of tips and tricks there, I think everyone can benefit a little from that course as well.

[00:01:42]
We are on, just so you know, container-v2.whole.courses, what you see here are my notes. So I have two computers here, one has my notes upon it, so I'm literally reading off with that one I'm teaching to you. This is all open sourses, it's available for free. So feel free to reference it after the course or share it with your friends.

[00:02:03]
That's all totally okay. As far as your computer that you should probably be using during the course of this course is, I'm on Mac OS. Everything that I'm teaching today will work great on Mac OS. This course has also been tested on Windows, so as long as you have Windows 11 or 10, this course should work.

[00:02:25]
It used to matter if you had home or not home, that's no longer important anymore. Just make sure you're on 10 or 11. And then if you're on Windows specifically, please enable either WSL2 or VirtualBox. We'll talk more about that here in a future section, but that's what you're gonna need.

[00:02:46]
There is a bunch of project files for this. You can refer to them here. I have a link there that should take you to GitHub, which has all of the correct project files for you, and they're all labeled just by what section that we're talking about at the moment.

[00:03:01]
Container screen is a lot of CPU and memory. If you have a modern-ish, and I say modern-ish, made after 2020, I don't know, here I'm stabbing in the dark, but if your computer's been made after 2020, you're probably fine. Docker requires 4 gigs of RAM. Anything lower, you're probably in trouble.

[00:03:19]
But if you have 8 gigs of RAM, I think this course is totally smooth sailing. Last thing I'll say is a lot of this is downloading stuff off of Docker Hub. That can take a lot of bandwidth. So if you're on metered bandwidth, just be aware that you'll probably download over a gig during the course of this course.

[00:03:38]
Where to file issues. This course is open source. So please, if you find any mistakes, but either grammatical or technical, just open a pull request. Me and the Frontend Masters team are pretty good about keeping an eye on that. So yeah, just open a pull request on the repo, which you can see is here.

[00:04:00]

>> Brian Holt: Who am I? I'm that dashing gentleman that you see there. My name is Brian Holt. I am the vice president of product at a company called SQLite Cloud. Or sometimes I'll call it SQL Cloud because I'm lazy and I worked at Microsoft long enough where they smash into my head that it said SQL.

[00:04:21]
I love teaching that's why I keep coming back to Frontend Masters over and over and over and over again. It really scratches just an itch in my brain. And the other thing that I've also discovered is just, teaching helps me understand something more fundamentally. So it forces me to kind of peel back all of my layers of knowledge and really get at the core of what's going on.

[00:04:41]
I'm sure you all know the feeling of, you understand how something works, but you've never really bothered to open the box to figure out why it works that way. I like teaching because it forces me to open the box. So I learned a ton in the process of creating this course, even though this is the second revision of this course, right?

[00:05:00]
Yeah, so I work on a cloud database at SQLite Cloud. And before that, I used to work at Snowflake and Stripe and Microsoft as a product manager, developer relations person. But previous to that, I was a JavaScript engineer for a decade, at Linkedin, Netflix, Reddit, a few other places.

[00:05:25]
So I've had a pretty wide varied career. And I've done everything from design engineering. I did a lot of that at Reddit in particular, all the way to very deep backend and infrastructure stuff. I did a lot of that at LinkedIn, and Microsoft in particular. And at Snowflake and at SQLite that I do a lot of stuff with Kubernetes these days.

[00:05:48]
So I've done everything in terms of full stack there. Why containers, and why learn containers for me? When I worked at Microsoft, I worked on Azure. I was in charge of developer experience for all JavaScript developers that worked with Azure, and so containers were a really important part of that strategy.

[00:06:09]
So I really dove deep into them to really learn how they worked, and I was always surprised, this is less complicated than I thought it was gonna be. And so that was part of my reason of wanting to teach this course is to teach developers, particularly, JavaScript-oriented developers, but any developer, really, that this is a really powerful tool, and it's very understandable.

[00:06:31]
So that's what got me inspired to teach this course, and I hope you enjoy it.

