[00:00:00]
>> Brian Holt: Congratulations on finishing a class on containers. You didn't know that you could spend this much time thinking about three different Linux tools duct-taped together, but here we are. I mean, that's really my hope for you taking this class, is kind of demystify what goes into a container, why we have them, why they're useful.

[00:00:20]
And just really how powerful those three tools just kind of put together. We've built so many layers on top of it. But at the end of the day, it really is, we're talking about Linux jails, namespaces and control groups, right? Everything on top of that is just additional tooling that we put on top of it.

[00:00:39]
So here's, I mean, this is basically everything that we went into just kind of for as a rear point of review, but you were here, so you know that. So I'm gonna say congrats, most of you now are ahead of the curve and containers, I would say most of the developers in the industry don't understand the depth of containers here, and you do.

[00:01:00]
I mean, I said this five years ago and I was right that I think that containers are only gonna become more important in our day to day development environment. People told me I was nuts that, something else was gonna supersede that, that Micro VMs was the future, and a bunch of stuff like that, and they were wrong, and I am still right.

[00:01:18]
And I still think that these are gonna get just more and more important. If you're not using containers in your day-to-day already, which I imagine many of you are. Then I imagine, within the next couple of years, either at your current job or your next job, you probably will be using containers in some capacity.

[00:01:35]
And I'll also say that anytime you open your phone or get on the Internet, you're interacting with a container in some variety. Because I would definitely say that every Fortune 500 company has containers somewhere in their stack, right? So they're just everywhere, and they're becoming even more places.

[00:01:56]
I use containers for stuff like, I run my home assistant at home, like I have a couple of Raspberry Pis that are just spread out throughout my house. And it was literally easier for me to just use Kubernetes because now I can just manage all the container images and just send them that way.

[00:02:11]
Which ended up being like a really cool workflow and a fun way to apply this, all this stuff as well. Yeah, and I only see this like, you see Kubernetes on in fridges, you see them on watches, you see them in billboards. I think you're just gonna continue seeing them everywhere.

[00:02:29]
I think it's StackBlitz, so it's using now web containers, right? So you can actually ship containers to clients using WebAssembly, which is really cool as well. Thanks for sticking with me, please let me know how you like the course. I left my link down here, you can go ahead and tweet at me.

[00:02:46]
Or star the course on GitHub, that always makes me feel good. And yeah, thanks for sticking around.
>> [APPLAUSE]

