[00:00:00]
>> Sarah Drasner: All right, so we've got our method and we've got our computed, let's take a look at our solution over here. So what you should've had, we already have our selected post and things already filled out. Then in our methods,
>> Sarah Drasner: We have add post, we're establishing a relationship in this object between author, title, and label with this dot new author, this dot new title, this dot new label.

[00:00:27]
You can call them whatever you want to, those are the things that I called them. We have this .post, which was an empty string. Or we this .post, which is sorry, an array, that top array. And we're pushing this new object that we created with all of that information onto that and then, emptying out all of those things.

[00:00:51]
So we're giving them empty strings again, and so that's how we are submitting that post, if we go look at the post in the html. We have form@sumbit.prevent, remember I said that we're not submitting on that button click, we're submitting on the form itself, and we're preventing it from refreshing the page with that .prevent modifier.

[00:01:11]
And we have adPost here, you could have called that whatever you want in the methods there. So moving on to the computed value, we have computed filter by label, it's very similar to the other filter that we created, where we have that regex that's making sure that that capitalization isn't gonna be a problem.

[00:01:29]
And then we're turning this .posts, remember that established a relationship with, this posts here, so we have this .post .filter and then we're matching to the filter that we created. Then if we go over to the computed, over into the HTML, we have this 'select' and we have 'V model' selected, so that stays pretty much the same, and we have disabled value.

[00:01:59]
But then what changes here is, instead of going post through posts, we're going posts filteredByLabel, or whatever you decided to call it in that area. So that is the same name as that filtered by label, and it's filteredByLabel here as well.

