[00:00:00]
>> Sarah Drasner: Further resources, there are just a ton of new resources out there. And there are a lot of really really good ones. My first favorite, cuz we're talking about favorites all day long, the view docs is an incredible resource. There's just tons and tons of information in the view docs.

[00:00:17]
They are really, really well written, they are written like a human being talking to you which is really nice. So if you would like further education and to learn more, they have all sorts of examples that I didn't go over today. The vue repo is also really great because you can kind of keep track of some of the things that you might care about.

[00:00:37]
You can kind of look at some of the release notes from past releases. You can see people fighting in the comment, in the issues, just like any other repo ever anywhere. We've got the nuxt docs which are also really well done and also have examples for people to use.

[00:00:52]
I think that's actually kind of really, really helpful especially for something like routing and server side rendering is to actually have examples that you can follow for particular use cases. We got the vuex docs, also really great. I wrote the css-tricks guide that's about five articles that goes through vue a lot of the demos are the same, but some of the information is not.

[00:01:16]
Awesome vue is a huge repo that's just full of tons of great vue resources, it's got podcast, it's got all of these meta ten. A lot of the really good few materials that you're gonna need to know. I won't even like make a list like this because this has pretty much everything you ever need to know about vue all in one place.

[00:01:41]
So definitely check, I'm not even at the bottom of the page by the way. [LAUGH] There's just tons and tons of stuff. There's quite a few Vue newsletters. There's like four of them or something. I just linked up one here, but if you write newsletter, Vue in Twitter, a bunch of things will come up.

[00:01:57]
So this is a really good Vue newsletter. The monterail blog, I mentioned that Damian, the one who put on Vue conf. Writes a lot about Vue, and so the Monterail blog actually has just tons of great articles about Vue, or even just, how would I create these getters and setters from scratch if I wasn't using Vue.

[00:02:18]
But I wanted to do it like Vue, those kind of mental exercises that are really fun to read. There's another thing I think that's also in this letter called vue tips. There's also the majesty vue which is an ebook that you can get online that's really great and has a lot of good exercises for you to try out as well.

[00:02:40]
Thank you for coming in here and lasting the entire day full of all these material I really appreciated, thank you for coming.
>> Group: [APPLAUSE]
>> Sarah Drasner: Mark you said you wanna me to cover like how the view community kind of and how-
>> Mark: Yeah, just kind of, I mean there's some question.

[00:03:08]
It doesn't have to be in the final videos or the course.
>> Sarah Drasner: Okay.
>> Mark: Just kind of-
>> Sarah Drasner: Just go over the-
>> Mark: Irrespective of the team and adoption.
>> Sarah Drasner: Yeah, totally. Adoption has kind of gone like this, especially lately. You've probably heard some of this. So recently, it was adopted by Adobe and then Espresso, and a few other kind of big companies.

[00:03:30]
It's already really well adopted in Asia. So I don't know if you're familiar with AliBaba or Weebo, those are like two of the biggest companies in the world but we don't really think about them because we're from the west and we don't think about the east very much.

[00:03:47]
So it has really good adoption in the east. In the West it's starting to pick up steam, I think because other frameworks like Angular is funded by Google and Facebook is funded by React. People are looking for that comparable thing in Vue. But Vue is not funded by a major company in that way.

[00:04:09]
It has a ton of community support. Like Laravel and STDLib and GitLabs and tons and tons of people help support Vue. But it's not backed or created by a big company. There are debates on either side of the issue about what that means. There are some people who are like, I'm not gonna do it unless it's backed by a big company it's a risk.

[00:04:36]
There are other who are saying, well you know if Facebook decides that they need it for a different direction or they're going in a different direction, there's really nothing you can do about it. Plus they've got licensing that basically says that they own you, if you're using a React application.

[00:04:51]
I'm exaggerating a bit, but there's licensing issues that come along with big companies owning it. And they're both right, both of these sides are things to take into consideration. Evan has said that he's not gonna quit working on it. It's not just him working on it, that's the other thing, is that there's a giant Vue core team.

[00:05:15]
There's a lot of contributors from all over the place but there's also a Vue core team. So it's not just one guy at his computer or something like that as well. So that's a misconception, too. So I would say community or adoption among big companies, it's like we're seeing it trend up.

[00:05:36]
But this is also, if you compare it to where React was at this point in its youth or whatever because Vue is still younger than React, they're comparable. Those two lines are very much the same. I remember even a couple years ago being at Zillow and we were I don't know, I don't know if we can adopt React, it's kind of a risk, everybody uses Angular looking at Bill with and there was not enough adoption and stuff.

[00:06:05]
And now adaption is pretty ubiquitous for React. If that line all of a sudden killed or something then I would be worried but I think it's actually just trending and trending up. So we'll see, but yeah those are all good concerns, that's kind of my take on it.

