[00:00:02]
>> Scott Moss: This course is gonna be picking up where I left off with the last course, as far as GraphQL goes. I was talking about things like fragments and all this crazy stuff that I didn't really get to, we're gonna start talking about some of that stuff today. So yeah, there is an expectation that you should know a little bit about GraphQL, but if you don't, don't worry.

[00:00:21]
This first section is gonna be dedicated just for you and we're gonna go through building some simple things just to get you going. Other than that, yeah, we're gonna lead all the way down to just applicable things. The stuff that I'm gonna be teaching in this course is stuff that you can apply today.

[00:00:36]
It's not gonna be like theoretical, here's how you could do this. Like no, you can apply this stuff and actually a lot of the code that I'm gonna be using and that you'll be seeing in the curriculum is straight from the repo at my company. So it's literally applicable code, things that we use in production every single day, and that's kind of how I like to teach.

[00:00:56]
Let's jump into it, everybody should have the repo, it's gonna be broken down into, I think there's five lessons on there. And the first one we're gonna be covering is basically just getting warm with GraphQL, getting back up to speed. Just going over the things that we all have a nice foundation and we're all on the same page and then we'll hit the ground running from there.

[00:01:19]
So I decided not to do slides for this because again, a lot of this is advanced, they're really, the best way to show you is just to get in and dive or dive in and get going. So there's this website called howtographql.com, we're not gonna go over it right now but this is a really good resource.

[00:01:35]
That if you're like, new to GraphQL, you're just starting to learn or you've got some holes in your logic because you've maybe used GraphQL on a client but you've never actually experienced building a server with GraphQL, this is the place to go check it out. So, yeah I would definitely go check it out, but basically, we're just gonna run through this right now, or I'm gonna run through a lot of this stuff right now with my code.

[00:01:57]
And we're just gonna build a baseline and I'm gonna set you off free and you're gonna do a hello world example. So again, this course is only gonna be focused on GraphQL APIs, we're not gonna be talking about any GraphQL clients. So there's no front end component here, there's no Apollo on the front end.

[00:02:13]
There' no JavaScript frameworks, this is purely just APIs. Towards the end, if anybody wants to talk about like how does this work on a frontend and different strategies for that, I'm more than happy to talk about it. Maybe that's another course but this course is only for the APIs.

