[00:00:00]
>> Let's start with the resume stuff, right? Let's get back to, starting back from the beginning. I want you guys to take ten minutes, and come up with a strong Introductory Pitch. So let's go with some of these pitches, I really liked Laura's. I saw, is that Laura?

[00:00:22]
Yes, creative and client-focus full stack developer. I really don't like the from what I've seen with HR is that they have a negative connotation to it. So I always just change it to web developer. So that's what you're working on, web developer as a full stack developer using JavaScript, jQuery, React, PostgreSQL.

[00:00:48]
And express to solve problems independently and collaboratively. Established professional with a proven record of managing people, processes, and technology. For the most part that's really strong, it shows that you said you're creative, you focus on the client, you say the technologies that they're gonna be looking for. And they're, the robots, gonna be looking for, so you did that good.

[00:01:18]
Solve problems independently and collaboratively. So you're showcasing that you have that experience to be able to work by yourself for any team. And you say you have established yourself professional with a proven record of managing people, processes, and technology. I like that, I feel like it's a little too formal at parse, but it still works, right?

[00:01:41]
Beyond the full stack developer and turn it into web developer and that's the only thing that I think really needs to be changed, but other than that it works. George, I am a web and mobile developer who works mostly with React, Native React, and Spelt, always learning new things.

[00:02:04]
I think you wanna say I'm always learning new things, I've been coding for over 25 years. In that time I had the opportunity to experience multiple technologies, starting my career, developing configuring applications, and old school Unix machines. I would keep the amount of years out of it. You don't want to carbon date yourself or anything.

[00:02:25]
They need to let them find out how many years you've been in this game, right? Also was very active in the early days of PHP, once again your carbon dating, PHP, Linux, MySQL, and open source. Presently enjoy working on mobile front-end and serverless. So with this I will be like, I'm with a mobile developer who works mostly in React, Native React.

[00:02:54]
And so, while always learning new things, I focus most of my time being active in a PHP, Linux, MySQL, open source, and a bunch of other things over my tenure in tech. I presently enjoy working with mobile front-end and serverless technologies. All right, so I was shoring that up.

[00:03:19]
I wouldn't date myself so much cuz you said there are biases, we have to think about that, right? We have to give them everything they need to not ask us questions, but take everything away. They can give them ideas of what we might like, not give them red flags, right?

[00:03:38]
Because you have to think of it from a hiring standpoint. The first year of being on a team is an investment of you. They don't really get anything financially from you in your first year, is that second year, they're trying to get that investment, right? And if the average developer moves two to three years to try to make sure that they get at least two years of experience of investment out of you before you start looking at other places to go.

[00:04:05]
One and two, they also wanna make sure that you can stay in the workforce long enough, right? So when you're saying that they're even though you might be cuz I'm from the military. So guys have 20 years of experience in the military and they're like, I'm retired and they're like 31.

[00:04:26]
So, I come from a world of young retirees, so I totally get it. I just wanna like that is a thing that they may use against you. As you, Matt, I use front-end technologies and I for design to make accessible websites for all people or any device. My specialties include React, Node, CSS, Vanilla JavaScript in area, all right?

[00:04:53]
So instead of area to just put accessibility, how to put the .js on there. You'll just node and JavaScript, you don't need to put Vanilla JavaScript. A HR person isn't gonna know what that is, so you just say at JavaScript, that's the word they're gonna look for. Vanilla JavaScript doesn't matter.

[00:05:16]
When you say an I for design, I make accessible websites using front-end technologies and with experience of product design. I think that sentence goes better because instead of you say I use front-end technologies, you're saying I make websites with the front-end technologies. Instead of saying I use front-end technologies, now you make websites using now, right?

[00:05:48]
So I make accessible websites using front-end technologies with a focus on product design. And you say the accessibility part as well, so let's do that sentence again. I focus on making accessible websites using front-end technologies with a with a focus on product design. And you have to use on any device, is 2020 they know you should be doing everything is mobile first and expanding out.

[00:06:20]
So if you aren't, it'd be a problem. Nadia, all right, I'm a mess, I'm a front-end developer with a master's degree in IT. I love building websites and bring ideas to life by making responsive web design and modern CSS using the latest in different technologies, okay? So here is a little two is small and broad, here's another, I mean, you're a front-end developer, that's good.

[00:06:51]
But you're not talking about any of the technologies you use on the front-end. You say web design and modern CSS, but you're not saying anything about JavaScript, React tone has very little that you have to do. Beyond that you have a master's degree, and you're a front-end developer.

[00:07:07]
So right there you go, I'm a front-end developer with a focus on these type of technologies. And then you can get into your master's degree and talk about how you love doing websites and bringing things to life, all right? So that's the only feedback I have for you.

[00:07:30]
This is a good one, Alicia, you rocked it, I love it. Alicia as a front-end developer, I focus on HTML, CSS, and JavaScript as this specifically applies to the UI, you go. I am a motivated individual who seeks to utilize my creative abilities and grow as a person and employee.

[00:07:51]
I love generating new ideas and seeing them through to completion. My greatest assets are organization, communication, and the ability to learn quickly. The majority of my development projects I utilize Vanilla JavaScript and Sass. But I have professional experience in a number of js libraries such as React, View, and Marco.

[00:08:09]
I think of those, React as the only library, View as a framework. So you also like that's a got you, remember, React is a library it's not a framework at all. We didn't put it in the framework cuz it's how people treat it, but it handles one thing, which is just the UI.

[00:08:25]
Angular is a framework cuz it does in the whatever, right? So other than that is good, you know how to say Vanilla JavaScript. It's like, just a JavaScript, we all know we say JavaScript, what that means. Everybody knows and the person who doesn't know, doesn't care, right? So they're just looking for that keyword other than that you rocked it.

[00:08:50]
Let me see, Alan. I'm a highly motivated JavaScript developer with a focus on front-end and full stack frameworks as React, Gatsby, Index js. Is next, yeah, next is full stack, I guess. I am passionate about providing and engaging in mobile user experience, whether it be on a phone, tablet, computer, or any other device, just a responsive design right there.

[00:09:19]
First foremost, like I said, if you're a developer in this era, they know that you're doing responsive design. If you're not doing responsive design, is a problem because everyone's doing a response design as the industry trends. So you don't have to say that, right? Continue my education and staying current with the latest technology trends is very important to me.

[00:09:41]
I would learn new and improved ways, code cleanly and efficiently. Let's see, I like the idea of the highly motivated, to say, I am a JavaScript developer, they focus on front-end and full stack frameworks is just React gasping in js. I like the, I'm passionate about providing an engaging and memorable user experience.

[00:10:08]
If we did stop know, erase that stuff, which is, throw that out. To say my primary focus is continuing my education, staying current with the latest technology trends versus continuing. Yeah, I think that sounds a little bit better. But that is opinionated, so you can keep as that is or a new kit, whichever way you want to.

[00:10:32]
I'm love new and improved ways to code cleanly and efficiently. Just say, I love to learn new ways to or it's just I love to improve on my craft regularly, right? As a way to, you tie all that together and you make it concise, right? So that was pretty good, I definitely liked it.

[00:10:54]
There are some things that everybody kind of get, like there was a lot of things talking about responsive design. Remember, as an industry trend, everybody's doing responsive design. You do not have to sell that part because, if you weren't, you're not gonna get the job anyway, right? So you don't have to tell them that you're in responsive design cuz all of us are doing responsive design.

[00:11:15]
What you need to do focus on the technologies that you are strongest at, that you wanna work in, right? I saw a lot of responses I and a lot of light, there's a few acronyms in there, right? But just focus on those technologies that you want to work at.

[00:11:31]
Remember the domain that you work in is more important than a stack as well. Saying full stack or front-end developer or back-end that's not as important versus say either to the technology which will be a keyword. Or what you build in, which is another key word or key context clues, right?

[00:11:55]
Saying you're a mobile developer, I already know that you're focusing on Java, IOS which means swift, you might know some Kotlin. You might know, I mean, you know how to put in the Android SDKs, I already know that, just for you saying you're a mobile developer, right? You say iOS developer, I know Objective C and Swift, right?

[00:12:15]
I know that because I already have enough experience that you're a mobile developer, that means you're gonna miss iOS and Objective C. So with that being, when you're doing that focus on the platform, if you're doing everything on the web, you're a web developer. If you're doing everything on mobile, your mobile developer like IoT, that's all that you really had to focus on cuz it's the keywords.

[00:12:45]
And the end is to bots and the person HR who matters especially a full stack is like a word or indicator that why they are using against people. Cuz there are some HR people that when they see full stack, they think boot camp. And there's only a few boot camps that they really wanna select from, which is the HackerRank and General Assembly's of the world.

[00:13:07]
So you have to really focus on using the right type of verbiage, right, this isn't an indicator. Web developer works great, everybody you are gonna web your web slinger, your next Spider Man, you do you boo boo. So that's the best way to handle that.

