[00:00:00]
>> In summary, what we're gonna focus on is always be producing content, right. They're also the most important things that we have to focus on. We have to focus on always building things, always pushing things out via Twitter, Twitch, blogs, anything like that. Doing our profiles correctly and writing our resumes in a really, I want to say offensive but really in a way where we shine the best versus having the HR members think I've been reactive to what HR says, right?

[00:00:39]
So that's the biggest thing that I want to try to get across to you guys from when it comes to getting your first front end job, it's all about making yourself shy. Think of it, you're a piece of the puzzle for every team, right? So you should only focus on being the best piece of that puzzle, not trying to be everything that everyone needs on everywhere.

[00:01:05]
So that's what I want you to go from and if you learn anything from this, go for taking the things that you learn in here and focus on being the best piece of that, right? I'll be consistently adding things to here. There's something that you want me to add or you want me to review, make sure you hit me up on Twitter and I can add to here.

[00:01:22]
This is gonna be open source, this is gonna be live for the rest of my days posted on GitHub, posted on our Frontend masters. So you guys will be able to have all this stuff with you. I want to do a huge shout out to Ayumi Bennett, who did all of the notes all of the really fun, cool weird things that you guys see.

[00:01:42]
That was all her, I do not have a talent for any of this stuff. She's a great sketch artist, and we worked and we did this talk and it was just like, this is pretty fine, let's do this again and now that's she's who created art. So definitely if you see her, if you want something similar like this, please reach out to Ayumi, right, she's a rock star.

[00:02:05]
Yeah, so that's it, do you guys have any questions for me? Any feedback, any questions, anything you want me to dive deeper in or anything like that?
>> There's people that are asking for that resume, that example resume, so if you could link that up in the site at some point.

[00:02:24]

>> Yeah, I can, if you want me to, I can link this up. So yeah, if you guys want that, I'll share that and you guys link it or I can make an entire page just for that, does that sound cooler more? So if you want to deep dive on the technical side or interviewing more technical, Jim Young.

[00:02:40]
I actually just did a podcast with him, he's a really great guy, little weird but super funny. He has a technical interviewing workshop here on front end masters and it's great, you should definitely check it out. I think these will work really well in conjunction, minds focus on making sure you get the eyes and he has focused on what happens once you get beyond those eyes and now you're in the room and they're grilling him.

[00:03:06]
So I think they work really well in Unison.
>> There's a question here about if you're remote or from, say, a different country, what's the best way to find places to apply to?
>> It depends from what I've seen, we use VWC, we use LinkedIn, we use Google, we use Twitter.

[00:03:31]
Most of my guys and girls have found jobs on Twitter. That was a good 50%, half of them have found their job through an HR recruiter that was looking at their stuff on Twitter. But LinkedIn is a great place, and also to pins on what you're trying to do as well.

[00:03:52]
For instance, different regions have different stacks that they really focus on, if you're in the south eastern United States.net PHP and Java Spring Boot, reigned supreme. But if you were to go further west coast, you have a lot more nodeJS Express, Python, flask, Django framework. So it all depends on what you're trying to work on as well.

[00:04:17]

>> Is it a good strategy to reach out to more experienced devs on LinkedIn and ask for advice?.
>> I would do that via Twitter. People tend to be a little more like, get off my lawn on LinkedIn than they are on Twitter. So having those type of conversations they don't slide in DMs, more experienced engineers they like to have those conversations out in the open because you never know who else needs that information.

[00:04:43]
And your question could be helping other people who are in similar place, but didn't ask that question. So I would move that expertise to Twitter. Unless you were looking for a mentor, then I would, you know what? I will still use Twitter, most of the people who are willing to help the most in my experience, have been on Twitter.

[00:05:05]

>> Yeah, a person just said, dang, I really need to make a Twitter.
>> Yes, you really need to make a Twitter. I have a rule that tell people Facebook is where everybody you already know is at, Twitter is where everyone you need to know is at, all right?

[00:05:22]
So and same with LinkedIn, most of the people that I deal with on LinkedIn, I already dealt with him, but I found them through Twitter, right? So that's all you know part of your funnel, right? You can loot treat that as a marketing funnel, you go on Twitter, you find the people who you wanna connect with, you build rapport with them, then you go find them on LinkedIn.

[00:05:41]
Then you follow them or connect with them on LinkedIn, right? You start with the informal way, remember Twitter's like a bar of intellects and stuff, right? So, especially if you're focused on just JavaScript stuff, get in there, have those conversations, ask questions. And no one's gonna judge you for not having for asking questions, cuz more questions you ask, and someone else that has those excellent questions.

[00:06:06]
So that's what I would recommend.
>> And does that also extend beyond the US or do you feel like it's,
>> Yes, it definitely extends beyond the US. Some of my favorite people that I've met or I've leanred from aren't in America and it's because of Twitter. So yeah, it's a global thing.

[00:06:30]
Do you guys have any other questions? I'm one of those people that are on Twitter, that you can ask questions to. I am always there, ask away if you need me to review stuff, I'm fine with that too, I do this for my veterans every day. So, I'm always on here doing that type of work, well I deal with veterans, I deal with civilians.

[00:06:52]
If you'd need to review something you had or you want to ask an opinion or something or get more clarification, just hit me up and I can definitely talk to you about it.
>> Looks like there's another question on how do I discover new people on Twitter? Do I use hashtags?

[00:07:07]

>> Yes, [LAUGH] yeah, we got a hell of a whole class on Twitter for developers, right? [LAUGH] A discovery on Twitter. You can start with some of the more basic characterized, has 100 days of code that runs on one days code, hashtag, JavaScript. Or you can start looking at people's list or find list and look through those, because that's where a lot of the magic is happening.

[00:07:31]
Now people are making lists of people you should follow, based upon their expertise of things that you're looking for. So awesome, great. If you're a newbie, number one and they're two Twitter's you should be following if you're brand new to this game. If you're brand new, you go to code newbies, follow them on Twitter, and then you should go to practical Dev and follow them on Twitter.

[00:07:52]
Then from there, you'll start being able to find people, other people that you can follow on Twitter by going through list and hashtags. But first use profiles, if you're new to the code game is code newbies and practical Dev. Another one I could recommend is CSS tricks, CSS tricks they are always dropping some good nuggets, so I'll definitely do that.

[00:08:20]
And just go from there, dive in though don't ask questions look up Java look up hashtag, JavaScript and just research people and jump in. Or you can need to follow me too, if you asked me who should you follow on Twitter, I'll be like, where you're at and then I'll pointing direction to three or four people.

[00:08:42]
And no problem, Richard, you're welcome.
>> What frameworks do you recommend?
>> [LAUGH] I cannot legally recommend frameworks because every job is different. I am a huge, I focus on react which isn't a framework, but your experience may be different. I don't want to influence what your opinions on frameworks, but I love react.

[00:09:08]
But you might love you, you might love spelt, you may enjoy working with Angular, you may be that person that brings Ember back. We don't know. So I'm not gonna try to influence which direction you're gonna go. I'm gonna say for jobs, that the two that are most prevalent in the area are React and Angular, just because those are the oldest and most stable, right?

[00:09:36]
View is coming up, Ember is waning, there are some big corpse that work in Ember, but there aren't allowed a new Ember jobs coming out, right? So you're talking purely from the aspect of getting a job, I will focus on React and Angular.
>> A recommendation you made I think is to find your local meetups.

[00:10:02]
But what about during the fact that everybody isremote and not a lot of conferences and meetups are happening in person?
>> Yeah, actually, they're not in person, but they're all virtual go to you solution, Tracy Lee, let me go to GitHub, Tech Community slacks. So, you go here, I'll add this to my summary.

[00:10:28]
You can find the slack channels that are popular in your locale. And you can just based on frameworks, languages, whichever low place you're at, and you can start building relationships in there. But all it really takes is one person you ask for a person's time, or you ask a person question estimate or any other feedback estimates or anything to read, and it just goes from there, right?

[00:10:52]
It just begins with one, mine, Ken Wheeler, he's a board member of mines now. But when I met him seven, eight years ago, I was asking questions about slick cuz he actually made that slick slider in jQuery. And a lot of people don't know that. But that was our first time interacting and really, he was open, he was able to help me work through some things and I was a brand new Dev.

[00:11:17]
So that's how that goes, in one conversation to another conversation. My first time meeting Zed A Shaw, he writes Learn Program in the Hardway books. It was because I was talking about vets and come to find out he was a veteran, right? So I built that rapport based on both of us.

[00:11:35]
Being veterans and both haven't been stuck in Korea, and we both know how boring Korea can get, cuz you can do everything there in 30 minutes. If you end up there in the right time, 3 or 4 months you can do everything in Korea. So I was just able to build that rapport off of it and just he keeps building what you're looking for is this you have to shift how you build relationships in a physical plane to avoid cracking and stuff.

[00:12:05]
[LAUGH] You have to shift to how you build relationships in a physical plane to a virtual plane. All that is, is just talking to people like Eddny. If you're on Twitter say, hey, we had a really good time. I'd love to if you should point me to somebody else to talk to about these subjects where you ask me questions.

[00:12:22]
I'm always gonna be there to answer questions cuz this is what I do. So don't hesitate to start with me and then branch out. And I'll help you build those relationships. Well, my name is Jerome Hardaway. I'm a geek event Sukkot and I had a blast and I hope that you guys enjoyed it too.

[00:12:43]
And I will see you guys on Twitter.

