[00:00:00]
>> Also, another thing you're doing your experience, talk about anything that you're doing with volunteering. So I have a protocol that I like to use, I said I'm here is what you did, what technologies you use and impact. So anything technical you do, you use technology, you use what you did and what you did it for.

[00:00:20]
What technology is used and the impact. So let's say right here what I'm doing now. To code and I'm my 2014, Present. Make sure I put right here. Volunteer, So, Like I said, what you did, what technologies and the impact. Built and, I wanna do that, may be a little, maintained a project that focus on educating veterans and how to write code.

[00:01:42]
The languages, Not languages, technologies, tools use are Gatsby, Netta fly, Github. Let's see contentful problem, pretty sure I missed something, contentful and what else AWS how about that, put that all there, AWS the, Currently, it has helped over 250 veterans, get jobs and had a socio-economic, Impact of, Six, not again, so I put that there because even though it's volunteer is really impactful and because my socio-economic impact is high.

[00:02:58]
It has a business logic skills, the superpower, the secret sauce when it comes to resumes, is especially when it comes to hiring managers and your tech team. Because your technical managers, they need people who can code but also understand the business side, how to make decisions based upon businesses, right.

[00:03:19]
So I'm sitting here I say what I did, like this is where we build a maintain project to focus on the education. Let's put that the education of veterans, how to write code, the tools that we use. Always make sure you read your stuff three times. So once you get past three offhand and have somebody else read it, there's some data.

[00:03:47]
I can't remember where I read it. But it says, that once a human being read something three times, they'll know if they're right, they'll no longer see the mistake. So always have proofreader. So I'm saying the tools that were used are Gatsby, Netflay, GitHub, Contentful and AWS. Then I'm, okay, so he knows what he's doing.

[00:04:08]
Then we're currently has helped over 250 veterans get jobs and it's had a socio- economic impact of 17.6 million. That perks them up, because they're, that's business stuff, you know how to do things that involve what we care about, which is money. Because in the end, they care about they want you to build good things so that they can make money, right and in an efficient manner.

[00:04:30]
So, then they won't start getting the budgets and things like that. And you're like, okay, we can have these talks now. And you're like, so you actually, you know what you're doing. So always focus on when you're volunteering. What's the social impact that what you did, you did volunteer work?

[00:04:46]
If you build a website for a non-profit? Did you focus on adding or Google Analytics so that way they can get better data to understand who their donors are, what age and gravity the donors are. Did you improve their donor process on their website, make sure that the donor buttons stood out.

[00:05:01]
And that their donor page was quick and easy. And a form worked and they didn't have to leave the website to go to another form. Because once they leave the website that donor retention just starts dwindling down. Did you do any of that, you have to think about.

[00:05:18]
All that stuff when you're talking about your impact in the same way when you're talking about business internship, right. So now let me do something, I didn't do an internship. Let me, you know what I use my first job because it was marketing but I was working on the DevOps team, working on the website, right.

[00:05:37]
So I'll treat that as a internship.
>> Should job experience be listed in chronological order?
>> Yeah, well, you're right. So I'll just show it as an example. But boom, take that. Put that right there, put it in chronological order. I just wanted to, cuz I had volunteer work on there, but bam, there you go.

[00:05:59]
So now since I have that up there, I have volunteer, have this and I have so now let's talk about, boom. So we'll put this, let's do 2000 or 2012, yeah. Yes, that was the marketing assistant. But because when you're 24 and you go to no-nprofit what happens is it as you fix the website.

[00:06:42]
All right, so now once again, I like to do things not in bullet form I do in a story, let me show you, this is what I did. This is what I did. I focused on, matter of fact, I'm gonna get rid of that first six months. Can I just, just say cuz this is over death, ot six months, your primary focus was improving the site speed and UI, as well as donor practices.

[00:07:05]
Say I'm using LAMP stack, WordPress, and with a specific focus on learning PHP analytics, find a strong user base. Cleaner donor processes, jesup all images ensure that we're not affecting our page speed, help, save proofread, pay speed and remove anything that's not being used locally. As result our page speed rose by 40% and our mobile donor user base rose by 75%, right.

[00:07:36]
I'm so on saying I'm giving the story of what I did, what I used to do it and the business value. Managers love business value. I can't say that enough managers want, why they want that they eat that stuff up. They love business value. They love developers, as an entry level developer, knowing the business of business value, developers love that.

[00:08:00]
I mean managers love that. Just had a veteran who just got hired as a senior Dev and the first thing that the HR person came back and told me. Yo, this person really understood how to do things, on a budget and do things well on a budget. I absolutely love that.

[00:08:19]
And then another person came through was a junior Dev. She's, I don't know what to do, all these people are amazing. They know exactly what we wanna do. They absolutely love you understanding business value. I cannot, managers love it. They love it. I can't say any better than that.

[00:08:37]
They absolutely love it. I don't know, for me it'd be Oreos or Redbull. I don't know. Will be the equivalent for it. Will be the healthy equivalent for that.

