[00:00:00]
>> Mike North: So today we're gonna be talking about Visual Studio Code. And If you checked out the project, this is all you need today. There are new slides. One of the things that we're gonna look at as we start jumping into what this great editor can do is the fact that you can create fantastic documents with this as well that are built right into your code base.

[00:00:23]
So if you open up the docs folder and look at the readme, that's right inside the docs folder, that is what we're looking at right now.
>> Mike North: So the way that we're gonna break this course down is we'll first do a bunch of stuff that involves using this editor, right?

[00:00:42]
Making use of the way it operates out of the box. We're gonna look at five areas we'll deal with using for quick auto completions of like Monday and things, like creating HTML elements. We'll look at creating a markdown document, like what we're seeing right now. We'll jump into things like type checking, which you can do either with TypeScript.

[00:01:08]
Or you can annotate your regular JavaScript with special comments that can be used to provide Visual Studio Code with type information, it can catch some problems before you ship your code to production that you would otherwise be unable to see. And then we'll end this using its section with some debugging that would be pretty painful where we're using other technologies to do this kind of stuff.

[00:01:36]
We'll basically have a multi-process debugging session where we have breakpoints set in the Node.js backend and a JavaScript browser-based app. And we'll see how we can sort of hop from one to the other pretty much effortlessly without leaving the single Visual Studio Code experience. So after we kind of become seasoned users of Visual Studio Code, we'll jump into ways we can customize this editor.

[00:02:07]
And change some settings, and change the way it looks and the way it operates, and then wrap up the day creating our own tasks and launch configurations, which essentially allow us to have shortcuts to start up different shell commands and different ways of booting our app up, putting environment variables in place so that it's sort of just a one click start my app process.

