[00:00:00]
>> All right, so we have an act of conflict right now, and we need to resolve it. So given what you know, even though I've already foreshadowed and already told you, would you use rebase if this was the experience of rebase? My guess is most people probably really wouldn't wanna necessarily use rebase if it means you're gonna conflict for any long-held branch over and over again.

[00:00:21]
That'd be a pretty bad experience just in general. So hey, they'll probably help you not have long running feature branches. So it's like a care through pain and misery. So it's like it's a really nice way to kinda fix that problem, but here we are. So anyways, I wouldn't personally wanna use it just because it'll just be a pain.

[00:00:40]
So instead, there's likely something you don't know about, it's called rerere. It's one of the strangest options at all of git, it stands for reuse, recorded, resolutions. And even from the The Git Docs, it says this, this functionality is a bit of a hidden feature. It's like the best feature and it's hidden, like why would you do this?

[00:00:59]
Why would you name it this? Why is it like this? It's just so painful that this, why are you the way you are, right? That's the meme, right? It's happening right before our eyes. And so all you have to do is enable rerere. You can enable it in your config, which means we can enable it locally, just for this repo, or you can enable it globally for all of your repos.

[00:01:21]
So for the sake of you not having your system altered in any sort of way, just enable it locally for just this repo. So I'm gonna go git config --add rerere.enabled with the d, right? Yeah, with the d, to true. There we go, we just did it. We enabled it, it's fantastic, right?

[00:01:41]
And right now, we're still conflicting, remember that. We're still in the middle of this, it's terrible. Let's see where we're at, okay, good. Everything we have the change in there. So I'll just add it. We'll do a git rebase --continue. It will play it, oopsies, I spelled, continue, wrong.

[00:01:58]
We'll now edit our commit message. I'll keep the commit message the same, cuz again, remember, rebase gives you the chance to edit your commit message. I don't want to edit it, awesome, we resolve the conflict. Now, let's see something here. Okay, fantastic, we did this. By the way, it's on a local list.

[00:02:14]
So if you do that, if you go git config, I forgot to say this, --list --local only, so these are only local options, you'll see rerere is right here, right? You can cat out the git config, you see right there. So okay, awesome, it's been enabled, we're ready, fantastic.

[00:02:33]
And we're gonna talk about what it is. It's not all sunshine and rainbows, by the way. Sometimes you could resolve something thing in a way you don't like, and you need to be able to go through, and you can actually delete how you have recorded your resolutions, so they don't replay again.

[00:02:48]
So that can kinda be a pain when you're like, that was a bad merge. And then you try to pull again and then it just automagically does it for you, and you're like, dang it, it just knew what I was doing, right? And you don't want that to happen, but it did.

[00:02:58]
So just remember that. All right, so let's resolve our conflicts and accept our change with A + 6. We did all this, right? We got to do a little, what's it called? A git rebase --continue. I already did that, okay, awesome. So let's go back to Hello Git.

[00:03:13]
And let's make a simple change to just upstream.md. Now, if we didn't have recorded resolutions on, we would actually conflict again here. But instead, if I go upstream, go right here and go another change with a rerere, we'll go like that, we'll git add, we'll git commit rerere, right?

[00:03:33]
And I can get pull --rebase on remote, and It's just gonna successfully rebase for us. Everything's great, we're not reconflicting, it's just smooth sailing now. So very nice, very nice to have rerere on. I would highly recommend having it on, just that only one thing you gotta be careful about is, of course, the bad resolution.

[00:03:58]
All right, rerere is free. You can just use it for free, nothing.

