[00:00:00]
>> Creating a repo, it's pretty straightforward. Lot of people probably have never actually created a repo, they've always just cloned from somewhere and worked on something. So if you've never done personal projects, you may have never created one. Or if you always create it first on, say, GitHub, or GitLab or Bitbucket, then you'll probably clone down from it.

[00:00:17]
Sorry, this is a weird phrase to leave my mouth, Bitbucket [SOUND]. So the very first step is git init. There's some British joke in there, right? I don't know what it is, but init, right, isn't that a British joke? Anyways, use git init to initialize git. It will add a .git folder inside the directory.

[00:00:38]
And that's how you know it's a great git repo. So first problem, I want you to go somewhere and I want you to create your first repo. You can name it whatever you want, I named this one my-first-git-repo. And by the way, for those that are like, okay, I already know all this stuff, I wanna move on fast, trust me, we're gonna go really deep really quickly.

[00:00:57]
I just wanted to make sure we're all on the same page with the exact same repo. So this is an accidentally important part. So I'm gonna go here and make sure that I don't have anything in here. All right, perfect, and so I'm gonna go, mkdir my-first-git-repo, my-first-git-repo.

[00:01:20]
And I'm gonna go git, that was weird, git init. There we go. And long as you have everything properly set up, you should see this error message, which says, hey, by the way, you don't have a default branch name, here's the default branch, all right, yeah, the default branch name.

[00:01:34]
If you wish to do something with it, you can set your own config and it will magically work for you from here on out. So everyone should get this error message if you have the same setup that I do. All right, solution, you can see all those things, fantastic.

[00:01:54]
So every single repo comes with this .git folder. This is where all the data structures are kept. Now, it's kinda weird because a lot of people probably think of data structures as things that run inside of a program, a tree, a [LAUGH] hash map. But you can also keep them just in files, right?

[00:02:13]
We got a question?
>> If you accidentally initialize a Git repo too high, like at a parent folder, what's the best way to revert this?
>> The best way to revert that, delete the git folder, right? Once the .git folder has been deleted, the repo does not exist.

[00:02:30]
All of git's history is inside this .git folder. So you delete that, you don't have a repo anymore. All right, problem, validate you have a new git repo by listing out all the files inside the .git folder, or directory, whatever one you wanna use. In fact, in one sentence just earlier, I said folder in your directory and I just realized how many people are just shook by the fact that I'm using those terms, I just love it.

[00:03:02]
All right, so if you don't know, you can use find. So if I go find.git, it'll list out everything. And you'll see a whole bunch of stuff in here. You'll see a bunch of informational tracking items, and then you'll also see a bunch of sample scripts right here.

[00:03:14]
I'm not gonna talk about hooks today. I think hooks are evil. Don't use hooks, that's my personal opinion. We're just not even gonna cover them. If you wanna learn about hooks, go read right here, you have a bunch of sample stuff, they'll just make your life miserable. Personal opinion, don't use hooks, okay?

[00:03:27]
That's what your CI is for. That's your responsibility to test your own code, don't be ridiculous. All right, People have really strong reactions when it comes to hooks, either they absolutely love them or they hate them. I'm on the hating camp. You may not like this, but this is what peak empty repo looks like, just a git folder with a bunch of files in it.

[00:03:48]
Again, I always thought this was mind-blowing to me the fact that git is in some sense stateless. Like when you run git, it has to go, okay, where am I? It has to find the .git folder. It has to look for that stuff, and then it can tell exactly what's happened inside this directory by looking in the git folder.

[00:04:08]
And so that was kinda like a neat revelation to me that it is its own entity like that.

