[00:00:00]
>> The last session that we're going to talk about today and we're not going to do an exercise on it just because Pinterest does not open this up to everyone by default. You have to ask for your domain to be whitelisted to use any of their rich cards, right?

[00:00:17]
Which is their equivalent of the Open Graph cards and the Twitter cards. I've heard that it takes about three business days. And I don't think that they scrutinize heavily. They just wanna know that you're an established business and that it's not just junk that you're throwing up there to try to add more data to the Pinterest domain.

[00:00:39]
Sometimes people try to use metadata like this, like what we're going to show you, as a way of building more links that refer back to other sites. So this is why sites tend to want to request a validation step there so that at least they can make sure that you're a reputable site.

[00:00:56]
But it's not like your business has to be big enough to get special accommodation from Pinterest here. It's like a legitimacy check. And that's it. So the first type of special Pinterest card that we get is an article and there's nothing too interesting about this except you get a read it button.

[00:01:17]
And it indicates next to CNN, CNN's little logo down there, that this is a CNN article. Otherwise, it's just the typical picture card that you get. One of their more popular cards, and this is one that's live today, and very oriented towards Pinterest, right? Is recipe cards. So here we get a picture on the top, and if we scroll all the way to the bottom, you see that you can provide some really complicated metadata at the bottom.

[00:01:53]
It's not trivial to get all of this straight, broken out into sections with the correct names and things. But ultimately, you end up making a list of ingredients, right? And here you even have like a gluten free indication next to this recipe. And so this is great because it enriches this pin with this extra information.

[00:02:15]
And if you had a collection of recipes, it's right there at the users fingertips. I didn't plan this out in advance, but if we had a movie card here, so this was removed in January of 2017, it was available until then. So this is what an IMDB card might look like.

[00:02:34]
And I apologize to the people in the room, it might be difficult to see. But at least you can see it's PG 13, there's its rating on IMDB. People online and on the video can see that there is a listing of the director and all of the actors that are in this movie.

[00:02:49]
So it's sort of the highest level of metadata that you might care about if you were looking at this movie. And then finally, we have the place pin, which was one of the more popular pins. It was also removed in a UI refresh this January, but word has it, it may come back.

[00:03:08]
I don't have authoritative information on that topic, but I would still advise. If Pinterest is an important platform for your business, don't assume that this is gone forever. They're still advising that people put this place-based metadata in there. Here's an example of how you might build this metadata.

[00:03:33]
It's just another set of meta tags. One difference here compared to what we've been working with so far today, is that you see the property names. Those are not fixed. They have been with Twitter cards and with the Open Graph tags. And the reason here is because Pinterest is looking for an additional level of richness.

[00:03:52]
You might be able to define multiple different entities in terms of metadata on the same HTML document. So that's what they're giving themselves the flexibility for. And I don't know if that is to build for the future or what. But that would be the reason to make these property keys, the names of the properties dynamic.

[00:04:14]
And with that, that rounds out our talk about social metadata.

