[00:00:00]
>> So White Hat SEO is generally seen as making content that is as good as it possibly can be for human beings, for your customers. Black Hat SEO differs from White Hat SEO and that it attempts to to please the bots, right? So we talked about how common words are shut away from your content and all that's left to like the specific rare words that only appear on your site and a handful of others.

[00:00:27]
If you just try to stuff a bunch of that junk into your blog posts and they're hardly readable and it's just gibberish, that will be detected very quickly and your search ranking will plummet. In fact, it would probably be difficult to find examples of this because it's detected so early that you can't even search for it like these people just think really, really quick.

[00:00:51]
JC Penney had an incident a couple years ago where they hired a contractor who did a lot of Black Hat stuff and they ended up for 90 days being in like, they went from like being the first result for terms like dresses, which is huge. That's a really competitive keyword, to being on like the eighth page of Google search results because they were penalized so heavily.

[00:01:14]
So you wanted definitely be on the White Hat side, it is a lot of effort to try to outsmart the the people who designed the search engines. One thing I would say is if you hire a consultant or a contractor to do SEO work with them, make it very, very, very clear that you are not okay with Black Hat efforts.

[00:01:37]
Not everybody knows that this stuff is cut easily and sometimes what you can see is like very briefly, you get an uptick, and it looks like really impressive cuz you're showing up on the first page. And then like at the end of the week, you're just gonna crater and this is not good for your business for that to happen.

[00:01:54]
So when you're setting goals, if someone's promising to get you on the first page, that's not what you're aiming for. You're aiming for sustainable and organic growth that falls completely on the White Hat side of the picture.

