[00:00:00]
>> Brian Holt: So, given that, we're gonna start working on some CSS now.
>> Brian Holt: So, we're building our house. We now have all of the timber and all of the drywall and all that kind of stuff just ready to be moved around. And now we're gonna start writing the blueprints of that, so it's actually gonna tell us, okay, this piece goes here, this piece is this color.

[00:00:29]
This roof goes here, those sorts of things, and we're gonna do that using CSS. CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets. Or someone told me they thought for the longest time was that they were California Style Sheets, which I think is way better. [LAUGH]
It is cascading though, we will talk about why it's called cascading later, but for right now you can just assume that they mean style sheets.

[00:00:53]
That's whereas HTML's kind of more like English-oriented. I don't say English-oriented, but like language-oriented that you're expressing ideas and content. Content-oriented I think is actually probably a better way of putting it. CSS is a series of rules. So you're basically creating rules that like, if this condition is true, then apply this style.

[00:01:19]
And it's just gonna be a bunch of rules. In fact, they're literally called rules and we'll look at more into that. It's gonna govern things like colors, sizes, order, positioning, hiding, showing, animations, and it's really really powerful. I'm definitely not the best CSS developer in the world. I would call myself merely adequate.

[00:01:41]
[LAUGH] And I hope to raise you also to adequacy. There's some really, really phenomenal things that you can do with CSS that take true artistry. It's as powerful as your artistry, I suppose, I think is something I wanna say. So you'll get people hat are really good with the animations like Sarah Drasner or you get people that are really good at taking data and transforming it into these beautiful works of art.

[00:02:07]
Which would be like Shirley Wu, who both are Frontend Masters teachers as well. You should definitely check out their stuff. I am going to show you how to make boxes green and stuff like that, also important, I will say. So that's what it is like. This is a tool that will get you, I'll get you started in this.

[00:02:30]
But it's up to you to really master these skills. So like HTML, it's not really a programming language. You don't really run CSS. You just declare a bunch of rules, and the browser setting then just follows your rules that you make.

