[00:00:00]
>> Brian Holt: We're gonna start writing some HTML now, which is gonna be super exciting. So, this is the raw building materials, right? So we're actually gonna pile up our lumber in front of our house before we start building it. So, HTML stands for hypertext markup language. I had to look that up, because I can never remember what it is.

[00:00:20]
Or in other words, it's not important what it stands for, it's HTML. [LAUGH] So like I said before, you don't run HTML. HTML, it's like speaking English, right? You're literally just describing what you want, and you have a browser that just reads it and kind of just displays it as it is.

[00:00:39]
So it is static which is the opposite of dynamic. It is unchanging. You just, here's HTML, it's like presenting you with like an essay, right. Your essay doesn't execute anything, it's just an essay. So the basic building block of HTML is a tag. Or, you'll hear me sometimes use the word element, as well.

[00:01:05]
And element is like one specific instance of a tag, and we'll kind of explain that as I go forward. But let's just get into an example. I think that's the best way to learn. So here, I have this h1, right. So this is called an angle bracket. Then h1, which is the type of tag this is.

[00:01:25]
So this is an h1 tag. Then you have your text inside of it. And then here, we have the closing h1 tag, which is, you can tell, it is angle brackets, slash, and then the tag. And then a closing angle bracket. So, I'll talk about what an <h1> specifically is here in just a second, but I want you to get familiar with the premise of what a tag is.

[00:01:52]
So, this is basically saying that I have this header, this <h1>, right? This is the text that's inside of there, and this is where it ends, right. So you can see here, this is the title to my document. Again, this is editable, so you can put things in here and you can instantly see it inside of there.

[00:02:12]
So, this is how HTML operates. It's just a bunch of tags with stuff inside of it, right? In this case, we just have text inside of it, but often tags will have other tags inside of it.
>> Brian Holt: So, when it's rendered out to the browser, this is what it looks like.

[00:02:34]
So an h1 specifically is a header, right, that's what the h stands for. And the h1, the 1 part of it means it's the most important one for whatever section it's in, right. There's also h2s, which are the second level, right. As you might imagine, you can have an h1, that's like the title of the page, and then you might have multiple subsections, right?

[00:03:00]
Like, maybe you have a blog, and you have multiple blog posts, and each one of those titles of those blog post might be h2, so for example, right? So it's the second most important level. It's not that you can't have multiple h2s, you can even have multiple h1s, that's fine too.

[00:03:16]
But it's kind of a hierarchy, right. So you're saying that, when you say something is an h2, it's not as important as the h1. And again, this goes all the way down to, actually, h6. There's no h7, I'm sorry, it's just, hopefully, you don't have 6 different, I don't think I've actually used an h6, like on a website that I've written.

[00:03:41]

>> Brian Holt: Maybe I'm doing something wrong, but no, not typically. I think I've used like an h3 before, I don't think I've gone any lower than h3.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so this is the base layer of like what HTML is, it's just a bunch of tags, that's really about it.

[00:04:01]
[LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: So that's what this looks like. That's the h1 right there. That in and of itself is a h1.
>> Brian Holt: So, it's bigger and it's bolder, because that's what browsers do with h1s, they make things big and bold. The browser has a bunch of defaults of what it thinks an h1 should look like.

[00:04:25]
Now, when we get into CSS, we'll figure out later how to make it look like other things. But just, by putting an h1 on the page, that's what it does. That's what the browser does, that's what it's supposed to do, is make it big and bold. And you'll notice, when I was up here messing around with this, when I put h1, it was really big, right?

[00:04:42]
When I put h3 or h2 it gets smaller each time, right? Down to h6, which is just a little bit bigger than the normal text.
>> Brian Holt: So, like I said, with CSS, you can change these things to make them look and act differently, right? So why is it actually important that we're using the correct tag?

[00:05:07]
Why am I using h1, if it's ultimately meaningless, if I can change the way it looks? Well, the reason why, it actually ends up being really important for a couple of reasons. The first and foremost one, what I would deem the most important one is that it makes this website more accessible to people that are not using the website like you do, or maybe you do, right.

[00:05:29]
So, there's things like screen readers, right, for people that are blind, or hard of seeing, or otherwise permanently or temporarily disabled. That have this screen readers that I go through, and I'll actually look for the h1s on the page, it's like, here are the important parts of this website.

[00:05:44]
And so, it's being used in ways that you probably don't necessarily anticipate. So, it's actually up to you, as the developer, to just use good practices and say, like, okay. This is the most important part of this section, I'm gonna use an h1 here. It's really really important because the web is for everyone, right.

[00:06:01]
It's not for just seeing people, it's for everyone. That's one of the actually the fundamental tenets of the web, is that it's for everyone. So make sure that you're doing things like that, because it really is an ethical issue. Beyond that, it's also good for Google and Bing and DuckDuckGo, and things like that.

[00:06:19]
That's how they are actually looking at your website. It's like okay, here's your h1, this is actually probably pretty important to you. And so they use that when they're kind of crawling your websites to determine where you're ranked, and how you're ranked, and what keywords you rank for and things like that.

[00:06:33]
So, that's another reason why it's really important. And then lastly, it's actually for your future self, and your colleagues that will be working on the same code as you. You're gonna write this code, and then six months later, you're gonna come back, it's like, what the hell did I write, right?

[00:06:46]
That always happens. [LAUGH] That's why it's really important for you to write code that makes sense, right? Because when you come back later, you want it to be descriptive, so that when you read it, it makes sense to you. A little-known fact is that code is actually more meant for you than it is for the machine.

[00:07:02]
You're just basically taking notes in such a way that the computer can understand it. [LAUGH] That's really what code is, at the end of the day. It's notes that the computer can exercise, or that can execute, but you can understand later, when you come back to make changes to it.

[00:07:17]
That's the point of writing good code, is that you can make it more readable and easier to modify later by yourself and by others. So, use good HTML. It's worth the thought that you put into it to make sure that it's good HTML.
>> Brian Holt: Let's see what else.

[00:07:38]

>> Brian Holt: The other thing is that, things like this, when you write good HTML, you end up making your code reusable. Which is something that we, as developers, strive a lot to do, is to make our code reusable. What's really nice about that is if I make this really nice h1 that matches the style of my website and all that kind of stuff, when I go later, and I make another web page, I can just reuse that same h1 and not have to do any additional work.

[00:08:05]
We'll get into that with CSS, and how we're able to do that. But, if you use good coding styles, you'll end up making parts of your code reusable, which makes you able to go faster, and less prone to bugs, that's another thing that's really important. So hopefully, I've explained to you at least a little bit why it's important to put a little bit of thought into HTML and not just make everything a div or whatever it is.

[00:08:31]

>> Brian Holt: So, a tag, whether it's opening or closing, it's surrounded by angle brackets, 100% of the time, all tags are surrounded by angle brackets. So, h1s, inputs, all that kind of stuff, this is what you're looking for when you're reading HTML, are the opening and closing angle brackets.

[00:08:49]
Closing tags always have a slash, right here, after the opening angle bracket for the, that's how you know it's a closing tag. Lastly, you have things that are called void tags or self-closing tags, and you'll see that slash here at the end, next to the closing angle bracket.

[00:09:07]
These are tags that open and close themselves, right, so they're self-contained units. We'll explain here, in a second, why you would have that. But just know you have both self-closing tags and then you also have tags that open and then close eventually, right. So this one, right here, opens here, closes here, right?

[00:09:33]

>> Brian Holt: It's really important that, you basically treat these like parentheses, right? If you have an opening parenthesis, you need to close it before you close any of the other parentheses, right? So, if I have parentheses like that, that's really hard to see. It's easier to see up there.

[00:09:52]
If I had, like a square bracket there, I wouldn't close it like that, right, that doesn't really make any sense. Maybe I'll make it a little bit bigger just temporarily, so you can see what I'm talking about. This is what I'm talking about.
>> Brian Holt: So, if you're doing parentheses, you would have parentheses on the interior, and then you would have square brackets on the outside, right?

[00:10:15]
That would make sense, right? So you have to close the last one that was opened. That's basically what I'm saying here. So if I have an h1 here that opens, I can't close the div. I have to close the h1 first. So, like you see here, where I have the h1 here and the div here, this is wrong.

[00:10:32]
This is not valid html. So this h1 has to close before I can close this div. That make sense? It's just one of the rules of html.
>> Brian Holt: So, we'll talk about divs here in a second. So, at the end, we go over a lot of tags.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.

[00:10:59]
So, a self-closing tag. I'm just gonna put it right here. Something like an input. So, you're going to say here, this is a text box, right? The way that you make this text box on this page is with this input tag. That's what it does, is it allows the user to input stuff into, like, a website so that you eventually that HTML, or whatever the user puts there, can be sent to you, right.

[00:11:27]
So it makes sense that this is a self-closing tag. You wouldn't actually have anything inside of it. That wouldn't make any sense, right. Because this is like one atomic unit that cannot be split apart. So that's kind of what these self-closing tags are, they're things that really just can't be split apart.

[00:11:41]
There's nothing inside of it, it doesn't make any sense to have anything other than a self-closing tag there. So you see here that's what this trailing slash here means, that means this is a self-closing tag. Unfortunately, to make this a little bit more confusing, you actually don't have to put that slash there.

[00:11:57]
So you can have an input like this. This is actually a valid HTML.
>> Brian Holt: So, it is in fact optional. But no matter what, input tags are always self-closing, and there are several others that are that way, but for now we will just talk about inputs.

