[00:00:00]
>> Brian Holt: So we just did all those different tools for like the list tags as well as the create issue. Luckily for you, I did the rest of them because there's 16 APIs and who here wants to write all of them by hand? That is someone that doesn't value their time.

[00:00:25]
We are just gonna go in here, in mcp, I put api-based-tools here and this has all of them. You can just copy and you can paste this into API based tools and this will have everything. Tags, delete, users list. This even has a health check which I thought was pretty funny.

[00:00:54]
Health ready, health status. It just literally took everything out of my API and put it in here. I think I took out a few, but I don't even remember if I did that. Let's save this and then we're gonna come back to Claude, we're gonna quit and start it again.

[00:01:11]
Hopefully it'll just work out of the box. Upstream connect error. That's a new one. Try one more time, see what happens. I don't know what that error means. Did anyone else see that? It's the ghost of Claude past.
>> Speaker 2: Was the server restarting still after you saved the file?

[00:01:38]

>> Brian Holt: Might be. Well, it starts its own instance of the server. It's not running off of your server. Right. That's why I have to give it the node binary. I don't know, but I can only assume that it was no problem and everything is fine. Now we have all of our API tools available to us.

[00:01:59]
Do I have some long stupid prompt to put in here? I don't, but let's just make a long stupid prompt. So, we're gonna get another api key cuz I lost it and we're gonna say, create a new issue for me. Assign it to the admin user, mark it as a bug and a feature request and a auth issue.

[00:02:36]
What other things can I do to it? Mark it as urgent. I want to add GitHub as an auth provider. Add step by step instructions to the issue description on how to do it. Your api key is blocked. Let's see how it does yolo. So, it's gonna grab users, it's gonna grab tags, there's no auth tag, so it's gonna go create one and it's gonna create an issue.

[00:03:51]
And it did it. I was not sweating that at all. So, let's go take a look in our Auth provider now, our issue tracker. This is obviously not reading as markdown, but that's fine. It's urgent. It's assigned to the admin user. It's not started, it's created at this time.

[00:04:18]
Pretty cool, right? And yeah, it created an auth one down there as well, which didn't exist before.

