[00:00:00]
>> Jerome Hardaway: Here's a template based upon resumes we have seen at work this year, right? So it's very plain, formatting super simple, very legible. This is what you wanna keep it. You wanna make it as easy for a robot to read as possible. Remember, it is a highlight reel, but it's also gonna be read by a machine at first, right?

[00:00:27]
So a lot of the formatting quirkiness that we would do in the past and bolding and things like that, it's already gonna look for the keywords. So you don't need a bold or do any of the keywords like that. That doesn't make any sense. And some of that formatting throws the machine off, right?

[00:00:45]
So what we've been doing is we've been using plain text and just putting that directly into the machine and seeing what works. And so far, this is what we've had our highest success rates with, right? Guess you have your information. For this one, we use just the LinkedIn because LinkedIn is kinda robust and that's why everybody goes through first anyway.

[00:01:08]
Professional summary with make sure that I include that I'm using full stack development and cloud technologies. I wanna make sure that I am saying what type, I'm using product, but I'm also using cloud. Have a track record, assisted performance, leading successful projects and continuous learning skills, depth to collaborating with teams.

[00:01:30]
Cuz that knowing how to collaborate is, or having saying that is now a big resume smell. They wanna know that you know how to work with people, or they want to know that you're thinking about how to work with people and going from there. Now, in my work experience, as you see, I'm saying where I worked at, it was a remote, was in the city, etc, and how long I worked there.

[00:01:57]
But I'm saying I'm using data, right? I'm using percentages. I'm saying we optimize this cloud infrastructure, increase performance by 35%, reduce costs by 20%. There's a lot more metrics that are being asked. They wanna see the value that you bring in your role, a lot more on your resume, right?

[00:02:17]
We are seeing metric based resumes getting a lot more positive feedback. A lot more callbacks than those resumes that do not have metrics on them. We also seeing that the cut off is usually three pages once you go past three pages on your resume, they're kinda this is overkill, you get, it gets thrown out by the computer and everything else.

[00:02:40]
So one page or three pages, is what you really want to get one to three pages, right? As you see as keep going further on, I keep that, I say what I did, I say the value of it. And then I also say the technology coz I know that those keywords are gonna be picked up.

[00:03:01]
So if I know AWS as popular as yours popular, I've worked at AWS, I worked for Azure, I'm gonna put that in there. I want to know Jas. I'm gonna put that in our React. Now here's a gotcha that we have been seeing. Saying you work with React, you need to say the back in technology that you work with with React these days.

[00:03:24]
Because a lot of people, particularly with after the update of the Facebook documentation, they are now, are you using Next.js? Right, that's what they wanna know. Are you using Next? And if you're using Next, are you using Vercel? Coz that's what they recommend. Now if you're gonna go production ready, you just don't even use React, just use Next.js.

[00:03:48]
It works, right? So that's what it says on the docs. So that now when you're saying you're using React, you need to make sure you have what backend technologies you're using React with, right? So you're using React with.net. Got to make sure you say that just can't say React.

[00:04:03]
You're using React with Django or flask like I always recommend to the dangers of flask versus Django. For instance, one is a lot bigger than the other one flask is tend to be, I believe as flat as the smaller one. And joining us, the bigger more robust framework and when people see that they see Django it's closer aligned with like Java spring and .net.

[00:04:34]
So that is what I always recommend people are gonna be doing Python. Make sure you're building things of that. And then, but whenever you're using with React, if you're just using React, you need to make sure that you're staying with the back end that you're using. But if you're using Next.js, say that, right?

[00:04:53]
Say, and talk about your collaboration, right? Your cross team collaboration. Knowing that you have that experience and you're implementing user-centric features. You're boosting user engagement whatever you're doing, how you're implementing productivity, how you're helping with the planning meetings, etc, make sure you're putting those examples on your resume.

