[00:00:00]
>> ThePrimeagen: All right, welcome to the course. I hope everyone is excited. This one is gonna be called Dev Productivity 2, or as the more cool name's gonna be, my dev setup is better than yours. And I think it is, and I know a lot of people think that there's many right ways to do things.

[00:00:14]
I think some ways are more right than others, and you're gonna see the way that I think is the most is right. All right, there you go. That's really the intro. Who am I? Well, the name is ThePrimeagen, you probably heard me say that once or twice. I have two links here, and some odd reason it says handcrafted memes and toilet.

[00:00:30]
And I noticed this yesterday, and I just choose not to change that. I think that that is a perfect description of what happens, and we're gonna keep that there. All right fantastic the goal today is to show you my approach to a developer environment. And so, as I like to say, there isn't a right way, but I think my way is pretty good.

[00:00:48]
I only have one thing in which I optimize, which is productivity. I do not really care to make something look beautiful. This is DHHS setup, which looks fantastic. I mean it's beautiful. It has little spaces. It has little names up at the top of all the files. It looks really nice, but I don't really care if something looks nice.

[00:01:06]
I really just want it to be highly functional. I don't spend any time making something look or feel great. I just want to be able to press a key go where I want, have what I want, as fast as possible, without searching. I think searching is an anti-pattern.

[00:01:21]
If you have to use your eyeballs to look at where you want to go, you have fundamentally goofed up your developer experience. I can't tell you how many people I see tabbing, but they have like three to four things they're tabbing in between. So they're constantly doing that thing, and then they miss it once and go around the entire cycle just to come back, or they hit the shift tab if they're feeling real.

[00:01:40]
Real good, like you just give up the fight, find something better, press one key, be where you want to be. So there going to the midwit meme. I call it a midwit, the people that just wanna make their system really beautiful. Because often what ends up happening is that people spend so much time configuring their system, they actually turn into the meme itself.

[00:01:59]
Where they spend more time trying to make it the best possible. And the most beautiful trying out every last new library, every last new them, that they become the meme. And I don't wanna be the meme, okay? I just simply wanna live an optimized life and that is it.

[00:02:15]
So, that is the purpose of this entire course. That is it there's nothing else. A bit of a prerequisite everything that I'm gonna be doing will be approached from the Unix perspective for the most part. We'll be doing a little bit of bash, we'll be checking out some other stuff like if you're on Windows.

[00:02:30]
It's not that I don't think you can't dev on Windows. It's just that I only use it to play Space Marines or World of Warcraft or something else. I don't use it to actually do any sort of development on and so I have no idea how it works.

[00:02:45]
I'm sure it's great, I just don't wanna do it. And I hear neovim is terrible, fake. I don't even play games. I don't even play games, to tell you the honest truth, I made that up so I could feel like we're connecting with each other, but that's not even true.

[00:02:58]
Anyways, so there we go. That is the entire purpose of this course, and I hope everybody's ready.

