[00:00:00]
>> [MUSIC]

[00:00:03]
>> Kevin Whinnery: Provisioning an environment is again kind of a journey. So we're gonna do that together and we'll do it kind of manually so we can see the different pieces and how they fit together. But at a high level you're first gonna decide which AWS Region you're gonna run your code in and it's usually best to be geographically close to where your users are and there's ways to run your application in multiple regions which were not going to get into.

[00:00:33]
Will select a region whether it's U.S. East region or U.S. West to Oregon or whatever it doesn't really matter, and then we will then create a user with permissions to allow us to essentially create the Amazon EC2 environment that we need, and allow us to deploy new versions of our application and things like that.

[00:00:57]
So we will create an AWS user and that user will be assigned credentials that we will use to configure a command line client to access Amazon on our behalf, which is part of the exercise that we'll be doing shortly. Next we're going to be a creating an elastic bin stack environment.

[00:01:22]
And environment is basically a fully functional like execution environment for your application. So typically you'll have multiple environments you might have like development a staging in a production environment, and those environments might be configured slightly differently.They might use different sized EC2 instances. Use different sizes or configurations of RDS.

[00:01:51]
That sort of thing. So we'll create an environment in this case we'll just create one environment to start with. And then that will be added to a security group and a security group is a construct within Amazon that defines like which resources within your Amazon account can communicate with one another.

[00:02:13]
So our RDS instance and our elastic beanstalk instances like the EC2 instances managed their Will be a part of the same security group which means that our instances can connect to our RDS instance that will create but the outside world can't directly connect to the to the RDS instance.

[00:02:33]
So we'll create both an EV environment and the RDS instance, add them to the same security group And then we have to configure that security group to allow incoming connections to post press and then we need to deploy our application and application version and then potentially, we a profit.

[00:02:54]
So, it's a long journey and there's a lot of things that you can screw up. Which is why I've been super super nervous about this component of the workshop, but I have done it three or four times over the course of the week so I'm like 94% sure this is gonna work.

[00:03:14]
So let's do this thing.

