[00:00:00]
>> [MUSIC]

[00:00:03]
>> Kevin Whinnery: So, what I'm gonna do is just hop into the Google Analytics UI and show you a few things. My Google Analytics have been kind of broken on my personal website for a while. So, the dataset here is going to be a lot smaller than it should be and just nobody visits my website in general.

[00:00:27]
It's a very low, a low traffic place, I hardly update it. So when you implement Google Analytics on your site, you'll have access to see some pre-canned reports from just by integrating the tracking code on your site. You'll be able to see things like how many users or how many sessions are being initiated on your site over a given time period?

[00:00:53]
And this date chooser up on the top right is constant across the custom reporting interface and this pre-canned reporting interface, so you can select the time scale data you're looking at. A couple of the pre-canned reports which are useful are gonna be the content drill down which is something that I use regularly, especially the primary website that I work on at Julio is the is the documentation.

[00:01:25]
So I'm very interested in which pages people are visiting most often, which pages have the highest bounce rate, which ones are the most popular landing pages, that sort of thing. So, we'll frequently just kind of come in to the content drill down to maybe start at the root of the of the site and drill into these various areas to see if where people are navigating in the site.

[00:01:52]
So for me, the most hits I have right now in terms of page views are on the home page and then the about where the recruiters can get some information to try to start to spam me and then some other odds and ends on my very poorly maintained personal blog.

[00:02:12]
The other bit that you're gonna take a look at, which is part of one of the challenges that you can take on this afternoon is a custom events and custom events allow you to track user interaction events in JavaScript while somebody is interacting with the site. So that if you are an front-end masters.com in the video browsing section or whatever, you can fire off a custom event for a video play and understand how many people are playing videos on a given page and the idea that you can get in the pre-canned is gonna be down here in the behavior section under events.

[00:02:54]
If you go to overview, you'll see a listing of events here. I'm not doing tracking on my personal website right now, but the way that you track custom events with a category which consists of a family of events. So if you're tracking actions on video plays, you'll have a video category.

[00:03:17]
And then actions will be things like play, pause, rewind, scrub on the video players and then labels will be things like the actual title of the video say and you can use these customer events in reports in GA. Now, the part you're going to probably use the most frequently is a custom report.

[00:03:44]
And in fact, the newest version of the Google Analytics API which you can use today. Actually, users custom reports as the way in which you create a filter for the data that you're fetching from the API. It's actually creating a report ends up in the GUI. It does actually end up being a little simpler than it is.

[00:04:05]
I'm trying to pull the same data out of the API. So when you create a custom report, you're going to be tracking metrics and across certain dimensions. So, a metric in Google Analytics is something that you can measure or something that you can count. So some common ones would be for behavior you have, let's see, like the average time on page say.

[00:04:42]
So, you can track how long people are staying on a page. There's also things like the, oops, the bounce rate. So when a user lands on a page on your site and then immediately leaves, the percentage of people that do that make up the bounce rate. And generally speaking, a high bounce rate for your offer of page is not all that great.

[00:05:07]
So, you can track a bounce rate for a page or other metrics that you care about. The other bit that you probably are gonna care about a lot is our goals and I can show you that interface to create that very quickly after I'm done here. But in the custom report, you can see how many people are reaching a certain goals within your applications.

[00:05:30]
So if you have a page that a user can land on after they successfully signup for an account, you can configure that as a goal and you can track how many people are reaching that account sign up success page and you can start to slice and dice data based on that.

[00:05:48]
The dimension is going to be the other axis of this report. So if the metric is the thing we wanna count, the dimension is the unit that is generating the metrics. So for something like bounce rate or a goal conversion, the dimension that that would map to is a landing page.

[00:06:11]
So whichever page somebody comes to on your site, I'll just search for landing page and there are lots of different dimensions you can use. So we can run a report, for every landing page, which of them has the lowest bounce rate? Here, so you can also filter, add filters to only look at certain sections of the site say.

[00:06:36]
So, you can have a landing page filter and I do this a lot. So in this case, I wanna only look at landing pages that whose paths start with slash docs. So if you're only interested in running in a port for certain sections of the site, you can add a filter down there, but I will raise that for now.

[00:07:00]
I'll just add a few more metrics in here, so we can see what they look like. Users and then I can also look at say, time on page. Average time on page. So, I have three metrics that we're gonna track across all the different landing pages on my piddling little website.

[00:07:24]
So, here's our custom report and we can see the number of users total across all the landing pages on the site. So the landing page with the highest bounce rate is my description of a Toy Signal Conference, but has a very small amount of users that are coming there.

[00:07:42]
The home page has the most amount of users coming to it, also has a very high bounce rate. But for folks that land on the about page, that bounce rate is quite a bit lower. After they look at about, they're much more likely to view a second page or a third page on my site during the session.

[00:08:02]
So, not large numbers here. But when you're trying to optimize landing pages for certain user goals, creating custom reports like this can tell you how close you are to the mark and it will let you track your progress over time.

