[00:00:00]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The goal today is to have a strong grasp on how to launch and support an Angular application. So, we, in the course description says we reserve the right to change things, as we see fit. And so this is still the goal. So we're gonna talk about building and testing and deploying.

[00:00:25]
And some static analysis in some of these things, which I think are super important. But because I am responsive and my favorite part of doing what I do and having the honor of being an instructor, is being able to go and ask, like what problems are you having, what challenges are you facing and then kind of adjust accordingly and address some of those.

[00:00:51]
So, this morning, we are going to do a review. And then we're just going to have a high level conversation about applications in general. And specifically application complexity and just set the stage for some very practical things that we can do within our Angular application to alleviate those problems.

[00:01:17]
So, for instance, one of the conversations we had was I have this wire frame, how do I actually break it down in two components? So where does it go? So, maybe later this afternoon or maybe this morning, when I get to wire frames, we may even just sit down and take and opportunity to say, well this is how this would kind of fit together.

[00:01:35]
But talking about application complexity, then we're gonna talk about immutable operations, reactive forms, event communication and route parameters. And as a bonus, there is an Angular, a firebased example that I cooked up last night. And so, I'm not for sure where we will work that in and but it's definitely there and there is a specific branch for that.

[00:02:06]
So these are kind of a list this morning, we're gonna have fun and we're talk about some very specific things around solving application complexity. And then, I think later this afternoon, we're going to talk about testing and debugging, static analysis, angular performance and deploying. Which I'm a little on the fence with the deploying portion because by the time we get there, everything that I would have said is we've already talked about in the other three modules.

[00:02:37]
But it's there and so, we'll just see how that works but that would be you know something that once you start to see these commands, you're like like the angular sale like does this? Not a lot to talk about there, it's taken care of.

