[00:00:00]
>> So, you did it you did it I'm so proud of you you listen to me drone on about SQL for literally hours, you deserve a badge, a metal, pat on the back, a hug whatever you need treat yourself. So, It's what I'm saying. This is a lot of information to come at you all at once, but I'm going to assert now that you have a pretty good working knowledge of how to be a developer with SQL.

[00:00:24]
I'm gonna say that you probably now have, more knowledge than a lot of seasoned developers about SQL, because most developers don't bother to go in and learn their tools, right? They just kind of learn by necessity and don't bother digging any further than that. I think what you did is better.

[00:00:43]
I think this is going make you a better developer and I think you can do 95% of the surface area of SQL, you can all do here. There's ways to grow and continue in advance on this learn more about all the various different inner workings, but this is a really good working knowledge for an application developer.

[00:01:07]
So some final thoughts Almost all of what you learned with some exceptions like JSON B applies to MySQL, Oracle SQL Lite, SQL Server. SQL is a general spec. All these things generally apply across most of these. Many of them like copy and paste as well as is into other databases.

[00:01:29]
If it's not that, it's minor modification. This course was exclusively focused on using a database and not setting up a database. If you wanna do things like sharding and running multiple databases there like ops, classes that you should take, and I'm just not qualified to teach on those kinds of things.

[00:01:48]
We didn't cover ORMs. We talked a little bit about that. I tend to not use them because I tend to fight them more than like it's really useful if like you're in their happy path, and it's miserable if you're outside of the happy paths. I would rather just be a little uncomfortable all the time rather than have to fight it.

[00:02:07]
I don't like tools that I have to fight In other words, so I don't use RMS hardly ever. But that's a decision for you and your team to make. And then we didn't talk a ton about execution order that might be something that for you to go look into.

[00:02:22]
That's just like when does a select happen versus Windows aware happened versus one of the order by happen again? For 99%, of course, other than the having section, you didn't have to care and you probably still don't have to care. So you can just kind of tackle that when you get there.

[00:02:36]
The last thing I have for you is our last challenge I have for you as application developers, you have this now movie database that you're now very familiar with. I would like you all to go make a movie website. I don't have them on the website or on the site yet by the time this gets posted we'll have it there actually have designs for you That you can actually go and adhere to.

[00:03:03]
So, but you have to write the CSS and JavaScript, I'm not doing that for you this time. You got it once, you're not getting it twice. Make a movie database, you also don't have to use my designs. But it was done by a professional design. The design like the course website, design the rest of your website.

[00:03:18]
I think I melted everyone's brain. There's not a lot left. I sympathize I was here too. So there's not a lot left in my brain either, but yeah thank you. Appreciate it.
>> [APPLAUSE]

