[00:00:00]
>> Jen Kramer: So if you have not done so yet, you can download all of the files for the workshop here. This is www.github.com/jen4web, J-E-N, number 4, W-E-B, /F-E-M, as in Frontend Masters, -layout. And you'll find here a whole bunch of files. In here you will see that there is a folder called Day one flex box.

[00:00:27]
Shockingly, that's where today's files are. There's also a folder called Day 2 grid. Shockingly, that's where tomorrow's files are. You'll also see here that we have PDF files called Day one and Day two. These are the PowerPoint slides I'm gonna be speaking from on occasion. You'll also see here two additional folders.

[00:00:44]
One is called Resources. Resources contains a text file with lots of additional reading in Flexbox, in grid, and responsive images are all covered in there. We also have a folder here called branding. And what branding is, is I have an example that I'm gonna be using throughout this workshop.

[00:01:03]
It's called The Pie in the Sky Bakery. We're gonna talk a lot about pie. And this is where you can go to get colors, logos, pictures of pie, content about pie and everything else you might need to build a little website about the Pie in the Sky Bakery.

[00:01:20]
So you can help yourself from that. Inside of the Day one folder, for example, you will find a series of chapters. These chapters are numbered one through seven. And I'll tell you which folder we're working in at any particular point in time. Most of these folders, though not all of them, are divided as follows.

[00:01:37]
There's a begin state and an end state. The begin state is the files we're gonna start with. And we'll start working with those files. We're gonna add code to them. By the end, they will look like the files that are in the end folder. If you get lost anywhere along the way, feel free to take a look at the end folder.

[00:01:55]
And as always in HTML and CSS, there is more than one answer to everything that we do. So just because I have one answer, your answer may be completely different, but absolutely as legitimate as my answer. So please don't take mine as the gospel, it's not. And then finally, there's also a file in here that's called instructions.

[00:02:15]
If you are following along with this video after the course is over, and you are interested in finding out what we did with this particular folder of information, this is an outline describing what you were doing with those particular files somewhere along the way.

