[00:00:00]
>> [MUSIC]

[00:00:39]
Alexis and I, we do JavaScript consulting for Bitovi and in the last like seven years I've been doing this. We've worked for about 30 different companies and I've seen so much that people will start to become a JavaScript developer but they'll never spend time really learning the fundamentals to be a jQuery Developer but never learn the DOM.

[00:01:00]
So this two day training really tries to change all of that. I really love questions, so people kind of online, people in the room please at any moment, you have a question concern just ask it. I really wanna answer it. So the agenda for today is we're going to really be covering for most of the day covering the basics of JavaScript.

[00:01:24]
We're gonna talk about like where JavaScript is kind of like in the environment of the browser, would be mostly focused on JavaScript in the client. We're gonna talk about JavaScript is a language with kinda command line thing or commands like if switch that thing. But mostly we're gonna be talking about types and operators in the beginning really understanding the data structures that JavaScript provides and kind of how it builds those structures in memory.

[00:01:56]
We're gonna talk about the difference between the double equal and the triple equal operator. You're really going to understand it, the difference exactly and precisely. We'll have lunch which will be great, talk about closures, how lots of every language has a stack and the closures are very similar to stack.

[00:02:15]
We're going to understand that difference. And then we'll talk about what this means which most people, they think they understand but really don't and it's much more simple than you think. And then, finally, talk about principle inheritance and we will start our DOM and jQuery stuff at the very end of today.

[00:02:35]
And tomorrow will all be about that resulting in us building that tabs which I showed from the first slide. So again, we both work for Bitovi, if you want to follow us on Twitter, that's where we are. We like followers. Justinbmeyer and alexisabril. And I was just saying we built a lot of different applications and we do JavaScript consulting training.

[00:02:58]
And, we do a whole bunch of open source work. When we're not talking about JavaScript and DOM people want to ask question about this. Happy to answer a question about those as well. So, at this point everybody should hopefully be set up. You should open in your browser tags that HTML.

[00:03:17]
So exercises/JS/tags.html and exercises/JS/test.html. So I have these open, like this. Tags will just be blank and the test page should have a bunch of breaking tests. And then in your IDE you should have open tags.html, this will be where we do our first very small exercise, just kinda like a almost a hello world.

[00:03:56]
And then we'll be doing everything else, almost everything else today in this my JS. We'll be building kind of our own implementation of the dot operator, the instance of operator, the new operator making sure we really understand like how JavaScript works. So with that let's yes just to show.

[00:04:19]
I've got these is what they look like tags of HTML and my underscore js, JS. [COUGH]

