[00:00:00]
>> Sarah Drasner: So monotone, monotone is kind of what you would kind of, think it was. We talked about monochromatic, monotone is just one single tone, that you're making for the entire image. And you can even play around with different monotones. So you can see how different this skeleton is based on what two colors, or what color is being used, or even the shadow that's being used.

[00:00:25]
Maybe this is against code conduct or something. This is the thriller dance [LAUGH].
So Duotone is like you've probably seen a bunch of those Spotify ads and stuff. This existed before the Spotify ads, but they made really good use of duotone. So if you look up duotone you get Spotify ads.

[00:00:46]
It's basically taking two tones and matching them up against each other. And you can do those kind of things in photoshop pretty easily too, they have these kind of filters that you can work with. That don't affects the layer you can like play with different channels and things like that.

[00:01:06]

>> Sarah Drasner: In real life, they way that light works is whatever color light is shining on an object, this shadow is the opposite. So if I shine a yellow thing on a box, the shadow would be purple. You don't have to use that, but if you wanted to use that to make your designs, or things that you're working with, appear more realistic.

[00:01:29]
Like if you wanted to make bright red light on someone, you could cast some cool green tones in the shadow, and then it would kind of pop and look a little bit more real. Another thing to note is things that are far away from you are going to be in low contrast and are gonna be blurrier.

[00:01:45]
And then things that are closer to you are gonna be in sharp contrast and they're going to be more vibrant. So if you are trying to make a layout. Even if you're trying to make a layout that subtly plays with that concept of near and far. You could use bright colors and something that's bigger and then a smaller thing with some blurred tones.

[00:02:07]
And people would, it would feel right to people because that's kind of what we see.

