[00:00:00]
>> Jen Kramer So as a web developer, you'll be building websites on the computer that's sitting right there in front of you. When your website is done, you'll need to move it somewhere where the world can actually see it. World can't see a website on the computer that's there in front of you.

[00:00:15]
And so the first thing that we're going to discuss is the concept of client and server, because it plays right into these particular issues. So, first of all the term, the client. We in technology love to take the same word and have it mean several different things that have nothing to do with each other.

[00:00:32]
You maybe thinking of a client as your customer or someone for whom you're building a website, but in fact, in this situation, the client is the computer that's sitting there in front of you. It's gonna be running a web browser. You're probably familiar with web browsers. There are all kinds of them that are out there and they are software that run on the client that are designed to display web pages.

[00:00:55]
If you are a PC person a pretty common one is Edge or Internet Explorer. If you are Mac person you're probably more familiar with Safari. But the ones that we like to use in web development are Firefox and Chrome. I'll talk more about them later. There's many, many other choices for browsers that are out there.

[00:01:14]
Some run on phones, some run on tablets, but that is what you need to know at the moment, okay? Client is the computer that sits in front of you, it's running web browser software. Now on the other end of things, we have a server. And the server is where your public website is going to live.

[00:01:32]
Just like before, server is a word that means two entirely different things. One thing that it means is the hardware server. That's the actual physical computer that is going to run programs that are going to make your website go. The other side is the software server. This is the actual software that executes the commands to send files on out so that your website can be seen.

[00:01:59]
One of the commonly used packages used as website software for the server it's called Apache. There are many other types of software servers, but Apache is one that you'll very commonly encounter. All right, so this is pretty much the way that the Internet's gonna work for where we are right now, just starting to build web pages.

[00:02:21]
We have a computer, the one over here on the left hand side that looks kind of like maybe a Mac LE or SE, and it's a machine that is running some kind of web browser. It could be any of the web browsers that are out there. You're gonna open up that web browser and you're gonna type in an address.

[00:02:38]
That address is gonna go over the Internet to the server. The server receives that request and it's going to send that page right on back to the client. And that leads into a whole another area to talk about, which is how that communication process happens.

