[00:00:00]
>> Jen Kramer This next video is for PC people only. Mac people, there's a different video for you. And this video is pertaining to Windows 10. There may be some differences with older versions of Windows, slightly different locations and things, and menus, and so forth. But overall, you should be able to follow along with this video if you have an older version of Windows.

[00:00:25]
And if you have Windows 10, then you are all set, everything should be just geat. So what I want to show you first here is how to locate your file structure here on your PC. And there's a couple of ways doing this, as always, but first of all, very consistently on all the computers, you can go to the Start menu, here.

[00:00:47]
And what you're going to do is scroll down your list of applications here. And you wanna go down all the way down to W, for Windows. And there is an item here for the Windows System. And if you open that up, then you'll find a link here for the File Explorer.

[00:01:06]
In the couple of PCs that I've used, there's also been a File Explorer shortcut pinned down here to the bottom taskbar, that's the same exact thing. If you have that available, that's certainly the easiest way to get to your File Explorer. But if for whatever reason you've unpinned that or something, you can find it here under Windows System and then File Explorer.

[00:01:30]
Go ahead and click on that. And this is gonna open up your whole file and folder structure for your PC. And as I said, sometimes they don't look like folders, but they are. So we have here a folder for the Desktop, Downloads, Documents, Pictures, and so forth. And if you take a look inside of these, for example, if we take a look inside the Downloads folder, we'll see things that have been downloaded.

[00:01:58]

>> Jen Kramer In just a moment.
>> Jen Kramer So here is a series of things that have been downloaded on this particular PC. We can make the Name column little bit wider by pulling over, the column up there on the very top of the page and you'll see that in this particular situation we have a bunch of files here that have extensions associated with it.

[00:02:24]
Remember, the extension is a dot and a three to four letter code that comes after it, which tell us what kinds of documents these are. Now the icons can somewhat give that away, but it's always good if you can actually see that extension, particularly when we're doing web development.

[00:02:42]
So turning on those extensions is relatively straightforward inside of Windows. If you go up to the top of the screen, go to View and click on that, look for the box here for File name extensions. And if you go ahead and check that, that is gonna turn on those file name extensions for this particular folder.

[00:03:02]
So you see here in the Downloads folder, we now have things that are labeled as msi's or exes's and pdf's and all kinds of other various file extensions that are here, but this may not turn it on for all the folders. If I go into, let's say, My documents folder and I go to my GitHub folder here, well, okay, good, those extensions are also turned on here.

[00:03:27]
So it could be that this is turned on for all places on your computer. If at any point you discover a folder where those extensions are not turned on, you just do the same thing. Go up here to View and look for file name extensions right on up here under Show hide, over on the right side, there is a check box here for that.

[00:03:47]
Just make sure that's checked off and then you'll be able to see the extensions.

