[00:00:03]
>> Jen Kramer: So this video is just for PC people. There's another version of this video for just Mac people. At this point, we have downloaded Sublime Text, and we've configured it with a bunch of plugins. We know about files and folders. We are finally ready to actually start working with a few files and folders and starting to see a little bit of code in action.

[00:00:25]
So that's what I'd like to do in this video. First thing I'd like to do is talk about the standard folder structure for a given web project. So typically, when you start a web project, you're going to make a folder. Inside of that folder is gonna be your entire web project.

[00:00:42]
And likely, there's a bunch of files and folders inside of there. There could be all kinds of different structures. As I said before, folders, the whole purpose of them is to organize things to make them easy to find. However, we do develop conventions in certain fields. And this is a convention that you'll find in web development.

[00:01:01]
So very typically, the way that our folders are configured for a basic web project, like the ones we'll be building, is just like this. We start with one main folder for the website. Inside of that, we're going to put a folder called CSS, and we're gonna put CSS files in that.

[00:01:18]
We'll make another folder called img, or images, for image files. And we'll make another folder called js, or JavaScript, for JavaScript files. Any HTML files that we generate are just gonna go inside the main folder. So I'd like to show this for you in action. We’re gonna go back to our desktop, and we’re gonna go ahead and start the folder structure for a typical web project.

[00:01:42]
So what I am going to do here on my desktop is simply right-click, and I’m going to choose New > Folder. And so that'll give me a new folder. I can call it whatever I want. And I'm just gonna to call this one demonstration.
>> Jen Kramer: And in fact, I'm gonna call this demo-finish.

[00:02:12]
I'm gonna to call this folder demo-finish because we actually have a starting state for this demo as well. So that’s my folder there on my desktop for my website, demo-finish. I’m now going to double-click on demo-finish to open this up, it'll show me what’s inside the folder, which is nothing.

[00:02:31]
That's as expected, because I just created it. Inside of this folder, we’ll go ahead and add some additional folders. So, once again, we can right-click in here and say, once again, New > Folder. And I'm going to make my folder called css. Make sure it's all lower case.

[00:02:51]
The upper case and lower case letters do matter in terms of file naming conventions. And it's just easier to remember if everything is done in lower case. So lower case css. Then we'll ahead and right-click again, we'll make another folder, and we're gonna call this one,
>> Jen Kramer: img, for images.

[00:03:15]
And then finally, one more time, we'll right-click again, new folder. And this one is gonna be called JS, for JavaScript, okay? So we now have the folder structure for a new web project. Let's see what happens if we actually put some files into these. So to get started with that, in your Start menu here, look for a web browser that you might have installed.

[00:03:40]
Hopefully, you've installed by this point Chrome or Firefox. I can walk you through how to do that, but if you just do a Google search for Chrome, Firefox, you will find links where you can download and install the application, just the same way we did with Sublime Text, a very simple sort of procedure.

[00:03:59]
So we're gonna go ahead and click on Chrome here because I have Chrome installed. So we're gonna enter URL here, it's where all the files and folders are gonna be located for materials for this course. And that address is, bit.ly/internetfundamentals, all one word. Go ahead and go there.

[00:04:23]
And that will go ahead and download for you right here at the bottom of your browser window. Now just going ahead and in the little arrow next to the file name, go ahead and choose Open. And you'll see that there is a file in here called Web Tools and Infrastructure.

[00:04:41]
Just go ahead and drag that to your Desktop, it'll take just a second to go ahead and download.
>> Jen Kramer: Then inside of the folder called Web Tools and Infrastructure, you're going to look for the starting website folder. Go ahead and drag that to the desktop. Now, if we go ahead and open up the starting website folder, you'll see that I have in here a whole bunch of files.

[00:05:07]
There are some javascript files, some jpeg files, some pngs, those are images, HTML and so forth. And what we're going to do with these is we're gonna put these in the right places inside of the folders that we just created. So let's go over the types of files that we would be typically put in the img, the css, and the js folders.

[00:05:29]
So I've described those here. Anything that ends in .htm or .html, that's going to go into the main folder. In this case, our folder called demo-finish. Any CSS files end in .css, those go in the CSS folder. Any JavaScript files end in .js. And they go into the JavaScript folder.

[00:05:51]
Any of the images are going to the img folder. Now it's important to note that there are certain image types that are supported by the web. And in this case, they have to be JPG, which is a great format for photography, GIFs and PNG files. And GIFs and PNG files are typically more used for illustrations.

[00:06:12]
File types like TIFs, BIT MAPs, EPS, Adobe Illustrator or Photoshop native files, anything like that is not supported by a web browser, so you can't use those on a website. The only choices that you have for your images are GIF, JPEG and PNG. So, now that you know that, let's go ahead and try out this exercise.

[00:06:35]
So I've opened a window here of my files for the starting website. And next to it, I'm going to go ahead and open up my demo-finish folder. Now what I'd like for you to do is to look at the names of these files and drag them into the correct folders.

[00:06:54]
Go on ahead and pause the video. And give this a try, and I'm gonna tell you the answers in just a second. Okay, so now that you've given that a try, let's start with css, since it's the first thing that's listed here. If you double-click on the css folder to open it up, you'll see over here in our starting-website folders we have a file here called styles.css.

[00:07:15]
All we need to do is just click and drag that on over into our css file. To go back to demo-finish, just up here in the top bar, you can click on the name demo-finish. That will put us back to the screen. Next, let's go ahead and work on our images, so double-click on the img folder.

[00:07:33]
Over here on the left-hand side, in the starting-website folder, we have a bunch of stuff. So we've got the cherryalamode.jpeg, click and drag that on over. And we've got clouds.png. Click and drag that on over. We have something called logo.png. Go ahead and drag that over as well, great!

[00:07:54]
So now we have our images in the img folder. Go back to demo-finish, again. And then we have a folder here called js. And that will be our JavaScript. So go ahead and open that up, click on accordion.js. Click and drag that over. And that is in place.

[00:08:12]
So going back to the demo-finish folder, what's missing? We don't have HTML. So, typically, there is not an html folder in place. The HTML files are gonna go right directly in the same place as the CSS, the image and the JavaScript folders. So just going ahead and choose index.html.

[00:08:38]
And simply drag that on over to the demo-finish folder. You'll have one file remaining. It's this one here, this .DS_Store folder. As a PC person, this is something you're gonna run into fairly frequently. If you are getting files from someone who created them on a Macintosh, which is what I did, you will typically find these files called .DS_Store that are here on your PC.

[00:09:02]
You can safely ignore these. These are of no benefit to a PC whatsoever. And Mac people never see this file. So as a PC person, just get used to occasionally you run into a .DS_store, you can just ignore that and it doesn't make any difference to you whatsoever.

[00:09:18]
So we're done with the starting-website folder. We've now loaded up the demo-finish folder with a bunch of stuff. Let's see what it looks like in the next video.

