[00:00:00]
>> Speaker 1: So we've done a ton of stuff in this course so far. We know all about files and folders, we've downloaded sublime text. I know you're just itching to go ahead and start creating a website. So this video is for Mac people, and we're gonna start talking about file and folder conventions.

[00:00:16]
For a typical website, there's a seperate video for UPC people where you can follow on with the same information. And so for Mac people, as you know, you can have all your files in one location, you don't have to organize anything by folders if you don't want to.

[00:00:35]
But it's always a good idea to do that so you can actually find things later. And as time has evolved in the web development industry, we've come up with some standards for this type of thing. And so it's pretty typical to have the following folder structure for a simple web design project like the ones we'll be building.

[00:00:53]
And so that folder structure is just like this. We're gonna have one main folder for the website which is gonna contain three folders inside of it. So the three folders inside will be called css for CSS files, img for image files and js for JavaScript files. And then all of the html that is associated with the website will go into that main website folder.

[00:01:17]
That main website been foldered can be called whatever you want. Let's go in ahead and give that structure they are trying right now, and so to do that.
>> Speaker 1: Just go in ahead to your desktop, and what you can do here is make sure you're in your finder.

[00:01:38]
Just click somewhere on the desktop where there isn't anything, and then you're gonna go ahead and make a folder. There's two ways of doing that, one way is to simply go File, New Folder. That works, or you can right-click or Ctrl-click if you don't happen to have a two-button mouse, and that will also give you a menu which will allow you to make a new folder.

[00:02:02]
Okay, so for my folder, I'm going to give this a name, I'm gonna call this demo-finish. Inside of demo-finished, go ahead and double click on it to open it and this is where we can add our individual folders. So I'm going to just go ahead and right click or Control click here inside.

[00:02:23]
Go ahead and choose new folder and I'm gonna call this one css It's best of you call these all lowercase letters. Don't capitalize things, I'll explain why later, just keep it all lowercase for now. We're gonna make another one here called img.
>> Speaker 1: And we'll make a final folder here Called JS for Javascript.

[00:02:49]
Now, Mac has a lot, displays these folders in a lot of differennt ways. The way this one is displayed may not look like your particular folder. This buttons on top will change that configurations so we can change it to look however you want In whatever way you want, I'm gonna make mine look like this.

[00:03:11]
This is the second button over, the one with the whole bunch of lines on it. As it says here, show the items as icons, and the list in columns, just like that, that's what I'm looking for. So, that is where we're going to be putting our various files.

[00:03:26]
And I had some files that we can work with to drag into these folders. What we're gonna need to do is download those, so go on ahead and open up your web browser. And where we would like to go is bit.ly/internetfundamentals.
>> Speaker 1: All one word, go on ahead and do that.

[00:03:49]
And you'll see that a file will download here. There's no web page that loads, it just happens to be that. We found this to be an easy way to set this up so as you have the files that you need for the class. Go on ahead and click on the little arrow next to this and say show and find her, and that will show you your downloads folder and we can just simply drag this zipped file right on off to your desktop and close the downloads folder.

[00:04:18]
So from right here on the desktop you'll see it says webtoolsandinfastructure.zip. Go ahead and double click on it, that will unzipp it. And we'll have a folder here called web tools and infastructure. I'm gonna take the zip file and just put it on the trash to clear my desktop.

[00:04:35]
Open up web tools and infrastructure. Inside of here, the folder that we want is the one called starting website, go ahead and drag that to the desktop, and then you can close the web tools and infrastructure window. So, I've got, demo finish over here on the side and next to that I'm going to put another window which is my starting website.

[00:04:58]
So here you'll see I have a bunch of files here. My extensions are all turned on so you can see that these are JavaScript files, JPEGs, PNGs, HTMLs, CSS and so forth. And so these need to be put into the correct folders in the demo finish folder. How do we know what goes where?

[00:05:17]
Well, I'll show you. So what we're going to do is there are specific file types that go in each folder. If the file ends in HTM or HTML, then you're going to put that into the main website folder. If it ends in .css, those are css files that go in the css folder.

[00:05:38]
If it ends in .js, those are JavaScript files that go in the js folder. For the images, there are only three kinds of images that are supported on the web. This is all the web, it's not a browser thing, it's just the way things are. Those three image types are JPGs, GIFs, and PNG files.

[00:05:58]
That means images like TIFFs and BMPs or EPS files, or Adobe Illustrator native files, or Photoshop native files, those are not supported by the web. You cannot open them up on the web or put them in a web browser. So all of the images have to be JPG, GIF or PNG.

[00:06:16]
So once you got that clear, now we go back. We’ll just go through our various files here and drag them into our folders. So if we start with css If you click the little down arrow next to the css folder, that'll show you what's inside of it. Right now there's nothing, because of course, we just created the folder.

[00:06:38]
But over here on the right side, in our starting-website folder, we can grab styles.css. Go on ahead and grab that, click and drag on over to the css folder, and let it go. And we now have our styles.CSS in our CSS folder. Let's do our images next. We have cherry almond.jpg, that's an image file.

[00:07:02]
We're gonna click and drag that on over to the image folder. It's sort of disappeared there, if you hit the down arrow, you'll see that the image made it over. Let's do the same thing for clouds.png that's another image file. And logo.png another image file. Great. So we've got all of those in place.

[00:07:26]
And then finally we have accordion.js, that's gonna go over here to the JavaScript folder. Let me just go ahead and click and drag that on over.
>> Speaker 1: So what do we do with this index.html? That goes inside of the main folder. Not in css, images, or js, we don't make a folder called HTML, we're simply going to take the index dot html and drag it right here into the main demo finish folder.

[00:07:57]
If you tighten up all those other folders, you'll see here's index.html at the same level as your css image and JavaScript folders. Finally, we have one file leftovers, this is a thing called DS_Store, this is a max specific file, it occasionally shows up. If these files have been going from a Mac, they went through a PC and maybe they came back to a Mac, sometimes you'll see this file in place.

[00:08:23]
This is actually a Mac file that is present on Macintoshes but normally we don't see it as Macintosh users and so this actually has nothing to do with the website. You may see .DS_Store show up in a whole bunch of places, just ignore it. It's not anything that's critical or anything that you're going to need in order to get your work done, so you can just go ahead and close the starting website folder.

[00:08:46]
So you've essentially built your first website, you have all your files, all in their collect folders, I'm sure you're wondering what it looks like, I will show you that in the next video.

