[00:00:00]
>> Jen Kramer I know you've been wondering what this website looks like. So let's go ahead and take a quick peek at it. How do we open up this website and take a look at it? Well, remember, it just needs to run inside of your browser, and your browser is automatically associated with some kind of HTML file.

[00:00:17]
So if you simply double-click on the file called index.html, this is going to open up in your default web browser, and my default web browser right now is set to be Safari. So here is my web page opened up in Safari. You can see it's all about the Pie in the Sky bakery.

[00:00:33]
You'll see here that we have a lovely accordion. That works, we can click on all the little bars and see the extra text inside of it. We have images, we have text and so forth, and it looks beautiful. So if it doesn't look pretty, you've probably put your CSS in the wrong place.

[00:00:51]
If it's the bars aren't working, there's something wrong with your JavaScript, so you might wanna check those things. But this is not the web browser that we really wanna use. Remeber I said Safari is specific to the Mac. Edge and Internet Explorer are specific to the PC, we'd like to use something like Chrome or Firefox.

[00:01:07]
Well, I have Chrome installed here, and so let's go ahead and make Chrome our default web browser. So if you'll go ahead and open up Chrome, inside of your Chrome browser, go on up into the right hand corner to the little three dots you see on the side.

[00:01:22]
Go over here and go down to Settings. And this will open up your settings for this particular window here, and this is going to show you a whole bunch of different settings. We're gonna look for the Default browser section. So if you just type in default up here in the search bar, you'll see here that we have a match come up.

[00:01:48]
It says, Default browser, make Google Chrome the default browser. And if you do not have this option, Google Chrome already is your default browser, but if you do have this option, it is not your default browser, go ahead and click on Make default. It'll ask you, are you totally sure, do you really want to make it Chrome?

[00:02:08]
Yes, we want to make it Chrome. Go ahead and click on Use Chrome. And that should be all set. That should be all that you need to do in order to set Chrome as your default browser. So now if I go back to my demo finish folder, go back to index.html, and double-click on it, we should now have it open up in Chrome.

[00:02:30]
So look up in the upper left-hand corner and make sure that it says Chrome instead of Safari and you should see exactly the same web page here.

