[00:00:00]
>> Jen Kramer: So now that you've had the little taste of how the file and folder structures might work on a typical website, there are actually a few rules that you need to be aware of when naming your files and folders. So I'm gonna take this opportunity to tell you about some naming conventions.

[00:00:16]
So first of all, the biggest rules for file and folder names is that you have to remember whatever it is that you call your file and folders, because you'll refer to them inside of your code. And, so there's some rules here that I've suggested that will make these things easier for you to remember, and it will lead fewer bugs in your code.

[00:00:36]
One of the very most common mistakes that beginners make when writing code, is they call a file by a wrong name or they call a folder by a wrong name, and the code quote doesn't work, so this is a really important point. So first of all, I strongly recommend that you use lowercase letters for consistency.

[00:00:56]
It's actually true that if you have capital letters in some places and lowercase letters in others you actually have to remember what those all are, because your web server will think that they're called different things. And I'll tell you more about that in just a second. Don't put any spaces in your file names, no funny characters like tik-tak-toe signs, or percentage signs, or anything else like that.

[00:01:21]
None of those funny characters, you can use hyphens or underscores in your file or folder names, but if you do pick one don't sometimes use hyphens and sometimes you use underscores. Cuz you'll confuse yourself and you won't remember what it is that your doing. So you wanna make sure that you use at the same way every time.

[00:01:39]
In other words, there are no really wrong answers here just whatever you decide to do, do it the same way every time and you reduce the amount of confusion that you have as you write code. Because this is true, here is files named Image.JPEG, and I spelled it a whole bunch of different ways here.

[00:01:57]
This is actually as far as your web server is concern, that is seven different image file names. And so, you can see here very quickly that you can get out of control in terms of naming your files with a mix of uppercase and lowercase letters. So the unfortunate part of this is that sometimes, like especially on Windows computers, this type of naming convention might quote, work in your code just fine.

[00:02:24]
But once you transfer your files to the web server, all over sudden things quote, no longer work. And it's almost inevitably one of these issues with capitalization and so forth. So, personally what I do is I use the first one is my image name in this case situation, image.jpeg, all lowercase letters, for jpeg in particular, where sometimes it's jpg and sometimes jpeg.

[00:02:49]
I just stick with jpg, it's always that for all of my images. And that gets me out of a whole lot of bugs that could take forever to track down just by being consistent. So the big takeaway from naming conventions, use lowercase letters, no spaces, no funny characters.

[00:03:07]
If you're gonna use hyphens or underscores, pick one, and do everything the same way every time. And that will reduce the numbers of bugs that you have as referring to files and folders.

