[00:00:00]
>> Jen Kramer Now that you have your code editor installed and you know a little bit about file paths let's go ahead and start putting that to work. I am back here working on my Macintosh computer. Windows people, you're following along with me. You should be able to do exactly the same things that I'm doing here with my Mac with your PC.

[00:00:18]
So what you need to do is make sure you have the VS Code Editor open and then we're going to go to your desktop where you should have downloaded the web tools and infrastructure folder. Go ahead and click and drag that on to VS Code. And that will go ahead and open up all of the folders and files associated with that folder over there on the left-hand side.

[00:00:47]
So what we're gonna do for this exercise is we're gonna go to the folder here called demo. Go on ahead and open up the folder called demo, just click on it once to drop it down and then click once on index.html. And that's gonna show up over here on the right-hand side.

[00:01:04]
This is all of the HTML that is making up this particular webpage. What's missing from this webpage right now are all of the paths, all of the things that we've been talking about to this point in time. So how do we link to our CSS? How do we link to other pages?

[00:01:22]
How do we link to our images? How do we link to our JavaScript? So that's all missing from this webpage. So even though you don't know HTML, CSS or JavaScript yet, this is a good exercise to gain some understanding as to what each one of these elements do, the HTML, the CSS, the JavaScript, the Images.

[00:01:43]
And then how we link them all together here. So we're gonna start with just taking a quick pick at index.html. The easiest way to do that is simply, open your folder on the desktop called Web Tools and Infrastructure. Go into the folder called Demo and then double click on index.html.

[00:02:05]
And that's going to open up the webpage right here by default. And you just see, it doesn't look like much at all. And the reason why is because this is plain old basic HTML. We haven't linked this to the style sheets to the images or to the JavaScript.

[00:02:22]
So what you're seeing here is just playing raw HTML. It's very usable, it's very simple, it's very ugly. And so if you have a page that looks like this, this is typically an indicator to you that there's something missing and it's probably your CSS. So that's a good place to look.

[00:02:44]
Okay, so let's go ahead and start by linking to our CSS, that's gonna be here on line number six. Click in between the two quotes that are there and we need to link to our stylesheet. Our stylesheet is in the CSS folder, in that demo folder, and it's called style.css.

[00:03:04]
So right here in between the quotes, we can type in css/style.css. Go in ahead and save that webpage, and if you go ahead and refresh you should see a change here. Now, if you don't see the change that I just showed here, in other words the navigation bar went horizontal instead of vertical, and we have a new font in place here as opposed to the old Times Roman that we saw before down looking at Arial.

[00:03:35]
If you don't see those changes then something wrong happened. And it's typically one of two things. One thing is right here, either your path is wrong. So make sure that path is correct or two, you've made some typo in there, you inverted two characters by mistake or you forgot to put something in.

[00:03:57]
So double check to make sure it says css/style.css or three, you put in some capital letters in here. Sometimes those capital letters will make things blow up and not work correctly, or four, you didn't save the file first. If you don't save the file when you take a look at it in your web browser, your changes will not be reflected.

[00:04:21]
So it's really important to save that file first before you look in your web browser. By the way, that's a mistake that everybody makes and we make it all the time. So you'll get used to making that mistake and you won't see your changes and that will be one of the first things that you check for.

[00:04:35]
Make sure that you saved your file before you look at it in your web browser. Okay, moving on here. Let's go on down to lines 13, 14, and 15. These are links, and what we are trying to do is link to the homepage, the about page, and the contact page.

[00:04:52]
And those are linking to other HTML files. So we'll start with this first one here, and once again after the h ref, in between the quotes, you'll see a pound or a hashtag sign. Go on ahead and delete that and we're going to substitute that with index.html, because that is actually our home page.

[00:05:14]
We don't need to put a folder name in front of that that's because we are on this page right now. So we actually just made a link to our self which it's kind of recursive, but there you go. Let's go ahead down to the next one here, which is about.

[00:05:31]
We're gonna link to about.html, okay, for the same reason. We have a page over here called about.html it's in the same location as index.html. No folders involved, so we can just type out that much. And then finally, for the last one, we're gonna link to our Contact page, so contact.html.

[00:05:53]
And if you go in ahead and save that, now we can go back to our web browser and refresh the page, and up here on the top, you can click on the About link. We'll go to the About page, click your Back button, click on the Contact link.

[00:06:11]
And we'll go back to the Home page by clicking the Back button. Notice that for example, if I'm on the About page, it looks like we're back to that unstyled format again that's because remember our About page is not linked up to our CSS. And those links that you see there are not coded at all.

[00:06:30]
So we're going to have to go back to our homepage to click the next link to test it again. We'll have to actually code the about.html and the contact at html pages with these same kinds of features. All right, so now that that's done, let's go down to these images.

[00:06:49]
You'll notice that my code is scrolling off the side of the page here. And so now I have to side-scroll in order to see the whole thing. It is possible to turn on a word wrap, and that would be under View Make sure I'm in my VS code by clicking on it.

[00:07:09]
And then if we go to View we're going to go to Toggle Word Wrap which is most the way down the view list there. If you go ahead and click that it will go ahead and wrap those lines around so that you can see things a little bit better, all right, so these images are inside right now of a comment.

[00:07:29]
Comments are those green lines. You see the <!-- and then it ends with the --> on the other end, that is a comment. And it's a way of hiding little bits of code or notes to yourself for other kinds of documentation you may want to have in a webpage.

[00:07:50]
In this particular case, if I put up those image tags just like that I would see broken images. And you've seen those on webpages before, they're the funny little icon with sort of jagged looking pictures inside of it. So we are gonna first of all start by getting rid of those comments.

[00:08:09]
Just go and had delete those characters on the front of that paragraph and then extra characters here on the back. Here we go. And now we are ready to code path to these images. So images are not inside the HTML, they're their own set of files. And we link to them here through the image tag, that's the img, and the path to them is through that src the source.

[00:08:36]
Click in between the double quotes and this time we're gonna go to our images folder. Inside of our images folder you'll see that we have a boston-creme.jpg. One picture, and we have coconut-creme,jpg, a second picture. So we'll go ahead and put those paths here. So, images/boston-creme.jpg and then in the second one, we'll put in images/coconut-creme.jpeg.

[00:09:13]
And if we go ahead and save that, we'll go into our webpage and refresh again. And you should have two lovely pieces of pie there on your webpage cuz who doesn't like pie? All right the last thing we're gonna add is our JavaScript our bit of extra interactivity and functionality and fun.

[00:09:34]
And that's done exactly the same way you've done so far. So after line 22 which is linking out to some javascript that lives on the internet, we have a little bit of code that we need to add on line 23. Once again, right in between the double quotes next to source, that's where we're gonna put this.

[00:09:54]
And we're going to go to our JavaScript folder, and we're going to put in particles.js. So we're gonna put in javascript/ particles.js, and if you go ahead and save that, and you refresh your web page, you should have some lovely, happy bubbles floating around on your web page, cuz who doesn't love lovely, happy bubbles?

[00:10:22]
If these do not come up, there's two possible problems. Once again, you could have spelled something wrong. You could have capitals, where capital letters were not wanted, and so forth, so make sure you've spelled exactly correctly. The other thing that might be going on is, because this particular JavaScript, is relying on some code, that comes from the Internet.

[00:10:44]
Make sure you are connected to the internet and that the Internet is working. If the Internet isn't working on your computer at this moment, then you're not going to see that JavaScript effect, even if you've coded things correctly. All right, so that is how to put together this first web page.

[00:11:03]
I've given you two others, an About page and a Contact page. Go ahead and post the videos and see if you can work through the about page and the contact page pretty much exactly as I've gone through this page here. You're gonna do that same exact type of thing with the about page and the contact page.

[00:11:23]
So you'll go ahead and look at,
>> Jen Kramer Once again, linking to your stylesheet, linking to your Home, About, and Contact pages and taking out the comment, putting in a path to the images. And making sure you have the right path to your JavaScript file at the end. Good luck.

[00:11:45]
Okay, so if you've gone ahead and done it correctly. This is the home page that we did together. If you go ahead and click on the link for the about page, it should look pretty much like the homepage except now. We have a cherry pie and it says it's the about page and then you should be able to click on the contact link.

[00:12:01]
And go to the Contact page now with a nice key lime pie with strawberry slices, and all of those links should work on all of those pages. The links are probably purple in color which indicates that you've visited those pages before. If anywhere along the way, as you're clicking through these and looking at other pages, you see a blue link, that's an indication that that link is probably broken.

[00:12:26]
You probably didn't quite spell something right, or you left off a character, or something else funny happened in your syntax so go back and take a look at those lines again. If you click on them, you might get some kind of page error. And likewise, if you don't see all the images, if you don't see the particles in the background, those are all indications that the path is wrong, you have a capitalization or spelling problem or some other syntax problem.

[00:12:53]
Otherwise these pages should hook together just fine and you should be able to navigate through your very first website with no problem.

