[00:00:00]
>> Jen Kramer So let's dive a little bit deeper into how the client and the server are going to communicate with each other. This is actually a small slice of what the Internet is, and how the Internet works. I'm going to leave out a ton of detail, because you don't need to know a whole lot of detail about how these communications work.

[00:00:18]
In fact, there are whole degree programs that are based on communications like this. We're just gonna focus on just enough so that you have a fundamental understanding of how this communciation happens so that you can work very competently as a web developer. So I showed you this image before, where we have a client over on the left-hand side running a web browser.

[00:00:41]
We have a server on the right-hand side, that's the computer name. Along with the server software that it's running and we have some kind of communications that are happening in between. And so if we think about how we would talk about the way that communication happens, one of the famous discussion is the Internet is a series of tubes and that there are full of cats.

[00:01:02]
And this is somewhat accurate, there definitely a lot of cats out there on the Internet, but we can say a little bit more about this. If we think about water for example, water is gonna come from somewhere, some lakes, some river, some stream, it's going to go through a water refinement plan and it's gonna come to your home.

[00:01:21]
We don't have specific molecules that are targeted towards our home. We just turn on the water and we manage to get some. This model is actually not quite right for the Internet. Because if I'm asking for a certain web page for my client, I'm looking for a server that is going to give me that particular information.

[00:01:41]
This is actually more like an envelope at the post office. Where there is a return address and there's an address for some place that I'm trying to get to. In this case the address would be, let's say the Google home page is where I'm trying to go, and the return address would be the address of my computer.

[00:02:02]
So where did those addresses come from? Well, they are called the IP address. And you probably have seen something like this before, if you take a look here we have a website URL, this is the website address for Frontend Masters. And I was able to figure out that the IP address for this is 52.39.142.164.

[00:02:28]
So that IP address actually very accurately describes the Frontend Masters' website, but we humans have a very hard time remembering a whole bunch of numbers like that. So the domain name helps us, something that's far more memborable that we can type into our computer. And then our computers are smart enough to match that domain name with our IP address.

[00:02:49]
And I'll say more about that in another video. If you're wondering how to get the IP address, this second link here for site 24 X7.com will allow you to go look up the IP address of pretty much any website that you want. And if you are wondering your IP address is, you can go to whatismyip.com, and it will very happily tell you what your IP address is.

[00:03:18]

>> Jen Kramer Something else is gonna help get on the Internet from your computer sitting in your home, you're going to need an Internet Service Provider. The Internet Service Provider is designed to have something that is going to take the Internet from your computer, out of your house, and out into the rest of the Internet.

[00:03:37]
And so there's lots of different kinds of Internet Service Providers out there. You've probably heard of Comcast or Cox, they are cable companies that often provide Internet. Or you may have Verizon or AT&T, maybe they're doing FIOS for you. Or Verizon or AT&T, maybe they're your cellphone company.

[00:03:55]
Your cellphone company obviously can provide data, that's part of the Internet. And maybe you have something else, like satellite Internet, or dial-up Internet, or something else like that. All of these are all Internet access, they all get to exactly the same Internet, they're just different technologies that get you there.

[00:04:13]
Let me just clarify one point on this though, so the ISP is gonna provide the IP address to the modem or the router in your house. And so if you look at this picture here, you probably have something similar which look like this at your house. And so, your Internet Service Provider will give you an IP address for that.

[00:04:31]
Now, inside your house, you may have a whole bunch of devices running. You may have phones, and tablets, and computers, and who knows, an Internet connected refrigerator. And what will happen here is that this router will control more IP addresses for within your house. To the outside world, this may look like all like one single IP address that we are sending request out into the world and that they're coming back again.

[00:04:58]
But then it's the router's job to say yes, here's that Google home page, that's going to Jen's computer. Here's the Frontend Masters' page, that's going to Mark's computer. And so that is what the router is going to do there in your house. Okay, you may have also heard of something called the cloud.

[00:05:17]
Well It sounds really cutting-edge and amazing and fabulous, but I have to tell you, it's really been around and with us for quite a long time. If you happen to use Internet-based email like Gmail or Yahoo or even some of the new like Microsoft Outlook 365, you are actually doing cloud computing.

[00:05:38]
The cloud is just a fancy way of saying the Internet. And that's pretty much all you need to know about the cloud, it's just the Internet. I also wanna say something about HTTP versus HTTPS. As you go to your websites you may see, you start off your website address that starts with http:// or https://, and you may be wondering, what's the difference is for those?

[00:06:05]
So HTTP stands for the Hypertext Transfer Protocol, which is a fancy way of saying, this is how we're going to communicate between the client and the server. This is the way we are going to communicate with a certain protocol and we are going to be changing web pages back and forth.

[00:06:22]
The S indicates that it is secure, but it is very important to be clear about what the security is. We often tell people to make sure that if you are doing an e-commerce transaction to make sure that you see the little padlock and the icon. This is related to HTTPS.

[00:06:39]
But what HTTPS is actually doing in this context is it's incrypting the transmission from the computer that's here in front of you, out to the computer where you're actually running the transaction. That's it. So in other words, it's secure from your front door, to their front door essentially.

[00:06:57]
When you actually get on the computer, where the transaction is happening. That's a whole different side of securities. And so its possible that you could send your credit card encrypted across the Internet, via HTTPS. And it could be received by a computer, which will display your credit card number in plane text, for hackers to take.

[00:07:15]
So HTTPS is secure but only from the distance from your computer to the server that it is contacting. It has nothing to do with the security that is happening on the server itself. So here's some examples of that HTTP and HTTPS. So if you went to HTTP, you could get to my website.

[00:07:38]
My website has got absolutely no ecommerce on it, it's got no social security numbers or health information, there is nothing there to steal. And so I don't have any security in terms of that communication associated with that. If you went to the Frontend Masters' website, that's a very different story.

[00:07:55]
You can buy a subscription to the service there, and so therefore, it is protected under the HTTPS protocol. And just as a sidenote, as you type these addresses into your web browser, you can have other protocols that you might be interested in. Almost all the time we're going to do HTTP or HTTPS but you could, in fact, use FTP, which is the file transfer protocol and the older protocol that is just designed to send a file from one computer to another.

[00:08:25]
And if you used a pattern that sort of looks like this where you have a username and a password, and an at sign, and a host and a port. Looks pretty complicated, but that would allow you to tranfer files from one computer to another. So that's a very quicker reveiw of cloud's server communcation, a little bit about IP addresses, HTTP, HTTPS, just enough to get you started and have appreciation for how the web is working.

