[00:00:00]
>> Jen Kramer: The next thing we're gonna take a look at is this product called CodePen, which you can find at codepen.io on the web. And as it says here, this is an environment where we can post our work, we can post our HTML, our CSS and our JavaScript, we can share it with other people.

[00:00:18]
We can get new ideas of how to code things or show people our own work. It's a really great tool and you'll find it you'll be using it a lot as you work as a front-end web developer. So I wanted to show you how we can move code in and out of CodePen over these next two videos.

[00:00:37]
So you have a sense of how easy it is to work with CodePen. If you want you can create an account for CodePen, just go over to the Signup button and create an account as you normally would. If you already have one you can go ahead and log in, but you can complete this exercise without having any of that login if you don't wanna use it.

[00:00:58]
So I'm going to start here from codepen.io, I'm going to click on the create button and I'm going to click on New Pen. And this is going to give me a screen and you'll see that I have three boxes. I have an HTML box, I have a CSS, and I have a JavaScript box.

[00:01:18]
And I can put code in all of three of these boxes, and down here on the bottom it will show me what the web page is looking like. So let's go ahead and give this a try. If you hop back in to VS code here we're going to go in to the folder called codepen-challenge.

[00:01:39]
And we'll start by going into index.html. And you'll see here that we have a whole bunch of code here for this particular webpage. So what we're going to do is we're gonna copy, not all, but some of this HTML into the CodePen documentation. So we don't need to copy the whole thing, we'll actually right here after the body tags.

[00:02:05]
So right here where it starts with a header on line nine. And we're gonna go all the way down here to line 34. So what have I left out? I've left out all of the stuff at the top that defines this as an HTML document, and links us to the style sheet.

[00:02:23]
You don't need any of that, those first eight lines of code. And then down here at the bottom, these last three lines of code are basically linking us to JavaScript and finishing up the HTML document. You don't need those lines either, so just lines 9 to 34 and we'll go ahead and copy that.

[00:02:46]
And then copy. And then we'll go to our HTML window over here. Just go ahead and click inside of it and hit Paste. So just Ctrl+V or Cmd+V. And that will show you, you can move these windows around, you can see that this the start of a web page.

[00:03:08]
And you'll probably notice that there's a lot of stuff missing. We have some buttons here, we have some pictures but our text doesn't look very good. What was the problem here again? Right, no CSS. So let's go ahead and add some CSS to that. We go back to our vs code.

[00:03:30]
We're gonna go into our css folder and look at styles.css. You can go ahead and copy this whole entire thing. So Ctrl or Cmd+A to select it all, Ctrl or Cmd+C to copy it. And then simply just paste all of that styling right here into your CSS window.

[00:03:53]
And you can see instantly, our webpage is looking a zillion times better. Look at that. But unfortunately, these are accordion panels and when I click on them, nothing happens. And so what's the problem when we have a situation like that? I'm clicking on something and nothing happens, it's often a problem with the JavaScript.

[00:04:13]
So now we can go ahead and copy in our JavaScript.
>> Jen Kramer: Once again, here in our codepen-challenge folder, go into the folder Look at accordion.js. We'll go ahead and copy all of that stuff, just highlight it all and copy it. And then here in our JavaScript window, we can go ahead and paste that in place.

[00:04:38]
So you'll see the little web page down there in the bottom refreshes, and then you should be able to click on those. accordion panels and see the text that's hiding inside of them. Pretty cool. So its very simple to take a website that you've already put together on your own local computer and you can put it up here on CodePen and share it with the world if you'd like to.

[00:05:05]
Now you can now give that code pen a name up here on the top. If you're logged in you can save this CodePen. If you click the Save button, it's probably gonna prompt me to log in or not, there we go. So it'll ask if you haven't signed up already, you can go ahead and sign up.

[00:05:26]
If you are signed up as I am you can go ahead and log in.
>> Jen Kramer: And then you'll have an option up here at the top of the page where you can change the name of your CodePen. My First CodePen.
>> Jen Kramer: You can go ahead and save things.

[00:05:50]
And it's pretty easy to go ahead and post those files up here on CodePen. And now everybody can see the work that I have been doing.

