[00:00:00]
>> Jen Kramer: So I told you all about Web servers. You might be interested in how you would go about getting a particular web server. Well, the way you go about doing that is through web hosting. So your website is going to have a home. You can run it on the computer that's sitting right there in front of you, but I can't recommend it.

[00:00:18]
Just cuz you can doesn't mean you should. And if you were to run your website on the computer in front of you, you'd have people from all over the world getting into your computer to see your website. And possibly hacking into other things. It's just not really a good idea.

[00:00:32]
So it's far better to go and rent some space on a server somewhere. And the way you would do that is through web hosting. And there are lots and lots and lots of web hosts out there. At this point, as you're just starting out, pretty much any of them are perfectly okay to work with.

[00:00:48]
Some characteristics of a good web host. So first of all, they're going to make sure that they update that web server and keep it secure. It's generally the web host's problem to update things like the operating system, to operate the web server software. To operate any other software that happens to be running on the web server.

[00:01:06]
As you'll see later on, they are maybe languages like PHP, or Python or something like that that's running on the server or databases that need to be updated. The web host is going to provide high uptime. Uptime is a term that means that the website is active and available.

[00:01:24]
That's pretty much all it means. Every once in a while, a server is going to, quote, go down, meaning that nobody can access your website. Generally speaking, it happens to everybody at some point during the year, unless you pay lots of money to have a very redundant sort of web host where, if one computer goes down, some other one can take over.

[00:01:43]
But for the cheap and cheerful route at the beginning where we are, chances are your website may go down for just a few hours every year. That's considered to be very high uptime. You'll also wanna make sure that your web host is providing you with, so-called, bandwidth, a reasonable amount of bandwidth.

[00:02:00]
Bandwidth is just, in this context, it's actually a misuse of the better term, which is data transfer. Every file, and video and picture that you put up on your website has a certain amount of disk space associated with it. It's gonna cost money to transfer out. This is very similar to the data plan that you have on your mobile phone.

[00:02:22]
And so what you wanna be sure is that your web host is giving you enough bandwidth that it can accommodate whatever traffic that you're going to have. Again, at the very beginning as you're building a portfolio site and you're only having a few dozen visitors a month, it's probably not an issue.

[00:02:37]
But it might be something you wanna be aware of as you get bigger and you get more successful. And then finally, web hosts should provide technical support as needed. Typically speaking, a web host will provide technical support through an online chat, or through the phone, or through email or some type of ticket system that they might have.

[00:02:57]
Some good web hosts that my students have worked with, that they're very happy with include SiteGround, InMotion Hosting or DigitalOcean. This is just a place to start, there are lots of really good web hosts out there. However, I recommend you stay away from a few. Personally, I would not do business with GoDaddy.

[00:03:15]
I really don't like the marketing that they've done for years. But besides that, they're really just not a very good web host. Bluehost and HostGator are also two that very commonly come up in this sort of context. But again, I've had a lot of people who have had very bad experiences with Bluehost and HostGator.

[00:03:33]
So personally, I would stay away from them, you might wanna take a look at one of these for your hosting. Now, how are we gonna go about transferring the files that we create here on the computer that's in front of you, over to your web host? That's typically done through something called FTP, the file transfer protocol.

[00:03:52]
[COUGH] So basically you're going to create those web files right there on your computer. You're gonna organize them in folders and so forth. And then you're gonna transfer all of that through FTP up to the web host. FileZilla is the software that's typically used for doing this. It's free, it's available on Mac and PC.

[00:04:12]
And it's pretty straightforward to use. So the web host should tell you everything you need to know in order to create an FTP connection. And to send your information from your computer up to your web host safely and securely. So FileZilla might be a piece of software that you'll need for that.

[00:04:31]
Another thing you're gonna need is a domain name. And the domain name, of course, is what do we type in on the computer to actually get to your website, that's the website address. There are a ton of different endings for these, but the best known one is .com.

[00:04:46]
And so a lot of people like to try to get a .com name. Your host will provide you with a temporary web address to get started. It'll be something kinda long and kinda weird looking. It may have a tilde in it, that's that funny character that goes in a curve.

[00:05:04]
It's not very memorable, because it is very temporary. It is expected that you're gonna buy a domain name. And there's so much more to say about those particular domain names. So I'll address those in the next video.

