[00:00:00]
>> Jen Kramer: Now let's talk a little bit further about domain names, because there's a lot to know about domain names, choosing the right one for your website and getting these connected to your web hosting. So as I mentioned before, a domain name looks something like this, www.frontendmasters.com. Sometimes you'll see an http:// or an https:// put in front of these domain names.

[00:00:23]
Remember that designates the protocol. The actual domain name is this whole thing here www.frontendmasters.com. So lets focus on that last part of the domain name first. That is called the top level domain, in this case it's .com but there's a whole lot of choices out there for these.

[00:00:41]
For example, the ones we started the internet with are pretty much .com, .net, .org, .gov, and .edu, and probably .mil. So .com originally meant a commercial or a website that had a commercial nature to it. .net was for networks in other words internet service providers, and .org was for nonprofits.

[00:01:05]
Those guidelines have pretty much gone out the window, anybody uses whatever they want, wherever they want, at whatever point in time they want. But historically, that's where the roots of this were. There are two that are still very strictly regulated. This is .gov, that stands for the US federal government only, not the state government or anything.

[00:01:24]
Just the federal government in the United States uses .gov. .edu is very strictly for higher education in the United States. There are very strict guidelines about getting a .edu address as well. .mil is used by the US military, and that is it. Now after those three, the .gov, .edu and .mil, it's pretty much anything goes for everybody else.

[00:01:47]
There are a whole bunch of country codes that are associated with some of this. And I just listed a few here France, Spain, the United Kingdom, Australia, Germany, Japan or the United States. These country codes were available but even these have been somewhat of used for example.tv is a country code for the tiny island of Tuvalu.

[00:02:08]
Out in the Pacific Ocean about 10,000 people at risk of climate change, actually, and rising sea levels. They went and sold their .tv domain name to a company that sells it to TV shows, so you can do whatever you want with these country codes.
>> Jen Kramer: In general as you start to think about a domain name for a website that you might like to build.

[00:02:30]
Here are some things that are really pretty important to keep in mind. So first of all, make sure it's easy to spell. People are terrible spellers. If you're gonna have some weird combination of letters in there that people could get confused by, that may not be the best choice for a domain name.

[00:02:46]
It shouldn't be too long, it should be easy to say over the phone. That's one I really strongly recommend. My first business was Focused Consulting F-O-C-U-S-E-D Consulting.com. That's gets really old saying that all the time. So think very carefully about a good domain name that you can simply say like FrontendMasters.com.

[00:03:08]
People should have a pretty easy time spelling that. It's easy to remember. If you want people to be able to remember your domain name and visit you regularly, I would recommend avoiding hyphens and numbers in your domain name. It's because if you go with another great one that I had 4 Web Inc.

[00:03:24]
That's the number 4webinc.com. You have to make sure that you're specifying the actual number as opposed to spelling out the number. And then make sure that you avoid copyright and trademark issues. So this was something that happened a whole lot more towards the beginning of the commercialization of the web.

[00:03:46]
For example we had somebody who had bought a Julia Roberts domain name who was building a fan site on it and Julia Roberts sued to get the domain name back. We had somebody with the last name of McDonalds who happened to buy McDonalds.com and of course the big burger people went and sued them to get the domain name back.

[00:04:04]
So if you infringe on someone's copyright or trademark, then you may wind up facing a lawsuit. So make sure whatever domain name you pick is really truly your own. So you might be wondering now well what on Earth should I be registering? Well I recommend you start with your own name.

[00:04:21]
Having your own name is a great thing, you can do anything with it because it's all about you. You can always register those domain names and not use them. Many of us who have been in web development for a long time have a huge pile of domain names that we never use and may never use, but we have great plans for them.

[00:04:39]
I think all of us are in that boat. You can also have more than one name point to the same website. So for example, I own JenKramer.com, .net, .org, .biz, and that rocks. And so my website is the .org website but I do have the .com point to it also because you never know.

[00:04:56]
And it was nice to buy all of those names. I bought them years and years ago, now I don't get confused with Jane Cramer or the magician or Jane Cramer who ran for a position in city government in Chicago. If you're wondering how to pick a good domain name, there are lot of services out there that will help you.

[00:05:13]
Name Boy has been around for a really long time. On this particular website, you can enter a primary word and a secondary word, whatever the words are that you'd like to have in your domain name. And then click the Go Name Boy Go button, it'll go ahead and do a search for a whole bunch of combinations.

[00:05:29]
And very nicely, it'll also do a quick check to see if those names are available for you to purchase. You can actually purchase them through Name Boy, if you want. [COUGH] You're gonna purchase your domain names through a domain name registrar. There are a ton of places to purchase domain names out there on the Internet.

[00:05:49]
And one of the simplest ways to purchase a domain name is to go to your web host as you're signing up for web hosting. You can usually just register a domain name right there. And all of the magic to connect domain names with web hosting will happen for you automatically, it's a beautiful thing.

[00:06:05]
If you don't wanna register a domain name with your web hosting, if you'd rather keep those as separate entities as many people do, you can go to a different domain name registrar and register your name there. Personally for ease of keeping track of all of your names I strongly recommend you pick one registrar and stick with him.

[00:06:24]
I use namecheap, there are a lot of other places out there Namecheap as their name implies kind of cheap kind of cheerful no frills just gets the job done. And, it's not terribly expensive to do so. Connecting your name to the hosting. Now if you wind up purchasing your domain name someplace like Namecheap and you have your web hosting, some place like SiteGround.

[00:06:49]
You're gonna have to make these two things talk to each other. So that the domain name when we type in say frontendmasters.com, we know that we're going to the web hosting where they're located with the right IP address. The way that connection is made is through something called DNS which stands for the domain name system.

[00:07:06]
So it's the way we just translate a name to an IP address. These DNS settings are provided by the hosting company. The hosting company will give them to you that will say here's a couple of DNS entries. You'll go over to wherever you registered your domain name and there will be a spot to put in the DNS entries.

[00:07:23]
You just copy and paste them over. And then you're gonna need to wait, typically 24-48 hours, sometimes a little bit longer. And then, when you type in your domain name, you'll get your web hosting. Why does it take so long? Well, we have to update the whole internet.

[00:07:41]
The internet is a very diffused sort of place. There are a lot of places that are storing where names and IP addresses go together. We basically have to update the entire internet. So that they all know when you wanna go to frontendmasters.com, you go to this particular IP address at this particular webhost.

[00:08:00]
If you're curious about how this DNS stuff works, there's a great article at howstuffworks.com and there's the URL for that if you wanna read a little bit more about it.

