[00:00:00]
>> Jen Kramer Now that you know a little bit about domain names and web host, let's take a little bit of a closer look at the web browser itself. So remember I mentioned where a web browser was it's that piece of software that runs on the client, that's going to the display a web page for you and there are tons of choices of web browsers that are out there.

[00:00:18]
But generally speaking is we work in web development, we're typically gonna do that on the computer that's here in front of us. It's usually a laptop or a desktop computer and it's going to be running two specific browsers that are highly recommended, and are pretty much used by all web professionals out there for development purposes, and that would be Chrome, and Firefox.

[00:00:39]
So these are the standard commercial browsers that you can just go and download or what you want. You'll want to install these on your computer. You may also hear about something called Chrome Canary and something called Firefox Developer. These are the latest, hottest, most cutting-edge browsers that are out there.

[00:00:57]
They still haven't gone through full testing. They may be full of bugs. They may have all kinds of other issues. Sometimes, these are helpful for developers who are doing some really cutting edge programming techniques. But generally speaking, for where you are right now and your learning process, you don't need to worry about Chrome Canary or the Firefox Developer browser just go ahead and stay away from those.

[00:01:20]
Just use the standard issue Chrome and Firefox that you'll find out there on the internet. Now one of the things about front-end web development is centered all around this browser and I got to tell you, this is the hard part of working on the browser. Every browser does things slightly differently.

[00:01:42]
We've become so much better at this now, 20 years after the fact. When I was getting into the field, we were really fragmented. We had one way of doing things in Netscape and a different way of doing things in Internet Explorer. And we really had to code two websites, one for each kind of browser.

[00:01:59]
We've become more standards compliant through the years, bu there are still issues with these browsers. One of the notable things is that the front-end web development in terms of the programming that we have available to us is rapidly advancing and changing, and people are not updating their computers as frequently.

[00:02:17]
So we have browsers that understand one level of programming from 10 or 15 years ago and we have programming techniques that have evolved since then that these older browsers they just don't understand. Because when they were invented and the browser was programmed, these web programs simply didn't exist.

[00:02:35]
So one of the biggest defenders in this category is Internet Explorer. And currently, it's last released. The very last time Internet Explorer was released was in 2013. It's Internet Explorer version 11 and it's still out there in the news 5 years later. Some people had started the move to Edge.

[00:02:53]
Edge is gonna have automatic updates. So this will be less of a problem in the future, but this is something that is going to haunt you throughout your front-end web developing career. What browsers exactly are my target audience using and what level of programming am I able to do in order to satisfy those browsers that they happen to be using?

[00:03:16]
So as I said, the web pages can look different in different browsers. This is something that commonly happens. The browser may not support those latest technology choices. That's often at the root of this. The browser may render some of that programming incorrectly and that is just something that you're gonna wind up testing for.

[00:03:34]
So you're gonna need to just test your work in many different browsers and devices to ensure consistent rendering. So what's gonna happen eventually as you evolve in your career? You're gonna be doing a project, the client in terms of the person who owns the website will tell you most of the people that visit my website are using the following web browsers and you'll need to make sure that you test with those.

[00:03:58]
So I went ahead and I took a look at the front-end master's website. And on the left side here, we have Chrome 10 which was released in 2011. And on the right side here, we have Chrome 51 which was released in 2016 and I went on to a website called Browsershots that will go ahead and run your website through a whole bunch of different browsers and show you what this looks like.

[00:04:23]
So I can guarantee that guys who built the front-end master's website had no care as to what Chrome 10 looked like for the current website. Their target audience isn't using it. Really, nobody is using it anymore from this automatic updates. But as you can see here on the left-hand side that, that web page look somewhat different than it does over here at the right side in Chrome 51, a later version of the browser and that's because programming has evolved and the techniques that was used here were not existing in 2011.

[00:04:54]
So it doesn't say anything about the front-end master's programmers, they're doing a perfectly good job. This is just to show you that the website browsers themselves are technology from a certain period of time and they may not necessarily render your page faithfully. Here is what does work very well, though.

[00:05:14]
That page there on the left-hand side even though it's not all the latest bells and whistles, it's still very readable, very navigatable and it's very easy to get the information that you need out of that website. Ultimately, that's the best test of whether you're website is compatible with certain browsers.

[00:05:32]
So now you are all panicked, what browser should I support? Well, the answer is always, it depends. As you are beginner, what I do in my classes at Harvard University is I tell the students just focus on either Chrome or Firefox. Pick one just focus on that. It's either gonna work right on your Mac or your PC.

[00:05:52]
And when I actually do grading, I have my students tell me, is it a Mac on Firefox? Is it a Chrome on a PC? To make sure that I'm grading them under those conditions. You can always backfill your technology later and worry about that stuff later. So right now, it's really important just to concentrate on the standards compliant way of doing things and the latest best ways of doing things, and then we can backfill for the old technology.

