[00:00:00]
>> Jen Kramer: All right, so here we are in question one, and it has to do with this diagram up here, on the top, which I showed you a few times in the slides. We've just sorta labeled them A, B and C. And so, A is what, and it's running what software?

[00:00:12]
Well the answer here, of course, is going to be it's a client, and it's running browser software. You might have thought that it was a client running Chrome. That is correct also. But it's actually more correct to just say it's a browser, because we don't for sure if they're running Chrome, or Firefox, or Edge, or whatever.

[00:00:30]
It is indeed a computer, but we were actually looking for the more specific name of the client in this particular situation. In this next question, letter C, the one over there on the right, what is it and what is it running? Well, the answer for that is actually the one that looks wrong.

[00:00:49]
Letter C, it is a server and it is running server software. It could be a web host potentially, but we don't know that. Remember, web hosts are commercial in nature. And we don't really know anything about this particular computer, it could be running server software or it could be running Apache.

[00:01:08]
And remember Apache is a very specific kind of server software, we don't know for sure if it's running Apache. Just regular generic server software is probably the better answer in that situation. And what is letter B here, in the diagram? Well, letter B is the Internet. In all likelihood, your ISP is involved in their somewhere.

[00:01:29]
There are definitely some IP addresses that are flying around. I wouldn't be surprised if there were a few wires in there as well. But the Internet comprises all of those particular things. Okay, the best browsers to use for web development are, and that is Chrome and Firefox. Remember that Internet Explorer has been completely phased out as of five years ago.

[00:01:54]
That's really something we don't like using in frontend web development. And Edge and Safari are specific to either the PC or to the Mac, and so we tend not to use those either. Chrome and Firefox run on both PCs and Macs, and they're very up to date with the latest web standards.

[00:02:14]

>> Jen Kramer: All right, we have a long list of stuff here. Which of these technologies will run in a web browser? Remember there is only three of them. And which three am I looking for? I'm looking for JavaScript, CSS and HTML. A lot of these things also will execute just fine in a web browser.

[00:02:33]
jQuery will, XML will, Bootstrap will, Sass will. Well, Sass will run on the server anyway. GitHub is a service that's over on a webserver somewhere. Java is a programming language, but the three I'm really looking for are JavaScript, CSS and HTML.
>> Jen Kramer: So in a web browser, what is CSS going to control?

[00:02:58]
Well it controls color, it controls fonts, and it controls layout, so the answer would be, D, all of these.
>> Jen Kramer: In a web browser, what is JavaScript going to control? Well, it's definitely going to control changing the color of an element. It can change the position of an element, but it's not going to label or identify all of the paragraphs in the document.

[00:03:21]
So the answer here will be only A and B. Remember, JavaScript is the thing that's gonna change things inside of the web browser. The labeling and identifying all paragraphs, that's actually HTML. And in the web browser, what is HTML control? Well, obviously, labeling and identifying all the paragraphs.

[00:03:44]
Conveying the structure of the document through tags. Yes, that is absolutely true as well. Making text big and bold. No, that would be CSS. So the answer is e, only a and b. What's the difference between HTTP and HTTPS? Well, HTTP is certainly not the secure one. HTTP is not necessarily faster than HTTPS.

[00:04:10]
HTTPS is not gonna secure the information on the server. So the answer is b, HTTPS is gonna secure the communications between the client and the server, has nothing to do with security on the server itself. You can host your website on your own computer. Yes, you can. But should you?

[00:04:31]
So true, but it's not advised, use the web host. You can in fact run Apache on the computer that's there in front of you. A client can also be a webserver, crazy but true, you usually think of these things as two separate computers. But, in fact, it's really two separate pieces of software.

[00:04:51]
So you can run a browser and Apache on the same computer. False, you don't have enough bandwidth. Well, that may be true also, you might be getting a lot of traffic to your particular computer. Your ISP may not be happy with you. But that's not really the answer that we are looking for, here.

[00:05:07]
I hope you did great on the quiz. If you didn't, feel free to go back and review the earlier videos before you move on to the next part about files and folders.

