[00:00:02]
>> Speaker 1: Now that we have a sense of how the Internet is working, how clients and servers are communicating, how we get things up and on to the Internet, and domain names and all that wonderful stuff, let's start looking at a little bit closer detail about the computer that's sitting there in front of you.

[00:00:19]
Every computing device out there consists of files and folders. Every single one of them. It doesn't matter what they are. Whether it is a computer, a game console, a tablet, a phone, there is always a structure of files and folders in place. Now, sometimes you need to download an app in order to see those files and folders.

[00:00:41]
That's particularly true if you happen to work some kinds of phones or some kind of tablets. Pretty much for your computers, there's always an interface that's available for you to see those files and folders. So let's take a closer look at files and folders, because they actually come from the physical world.

[00:00:58]
They've been around for hundreds of years, and so let's make sure we understand what they are in the physical world before we go on to looking at them on our computer. So we have lots of stuff. This is a file. It happens to be a list of pieces of music, I think.

[00:01:18]
This is also a file. It is in fact, a piece of music. Here is another file. It's a brochure. This is for direct term life insurance. Okay, has several pages to it, but it's also a file. Here's a catalog. Catalog's got tons of stuff in it. This is, of course, women's' clothing.

[00:01:38]
It came straight out of my recycle bin. That is also a file. So files are all just pieces of information that we can, in the physical world, that we can take them, we can read them, we can page through them, we can recycle them, we can burn them, we can mail them to a friend.

[00:01:55]
We can do all kids of things with files. We also have folders. Folders have always been a way of organizing files. And so, I can take my folder and I can put stuff inside of it. So here's a thing in my folder, here's another thing in my folder.

[00:02:11]
So that's the whole purpose of a folder, just to group things together, and that's all that it's there for. My file system may make no sense to you whatsoever, and that's totally okay, too. Because I'm the one using my file system and it needs to be organized in a way that I can find things.

[00:02:29]
I don't have to have a file system. I could have piles of papers all over my house. I could have cabinets and drawers full of junk. But I probably have a very hard time finding anything. So having folders are a very useful for that purpose. We can also have folders inside of folders

[00:02:49]

>> Speaker 1: So we can take one folder. We can put another folder inside of it. We can also add a few files. So not everything has to be together inside of that folder. We can have a few files in a folder all inside of a folder, and maybe that goes in my hanging file.

[00:03:08]
And now, I can find things there. Maybe I've organized them by year or something like that. So this is files and folders in the real world. You probably already knew exactly how all of this worked. The point is, your computer files and folders really aren't any different. So let's talk a little bit more about files that live on your computer.

[00:03:29]
So there's tons and types of files that re out there. Music files, video files, databases, images, documents, programs. There's all kinds of wonderful stuff that's out there. Very importantly, files have lots of characteristics. They can be created. They can be opened, saved, renamed, printed, e-mailed, and modified in some way.

[00:03:49]
So you can do all kinds of things with files. They typically have an extension of three to four characters after a dot. You may not necessarily have your computer configured that way yet. I'll show you how to do that in a separate video. And most importantly, files are going to take up room on your hard drive.

[00:04:07]
So every time you add more music to your hard drive or add more pictures from your camera or wherever else, that takes up room on your hard drive. And eventually, you run out of room and have to move things somewhere else. Folders, there's only one kind, it's just a folder.

[00:04:24]
We have folders inside of folders. And folders only do one thing, they hold more files or they hold more folders. That is it, that is all folders do. They can be created, they can be moved, they can be renamed, and they can be deleted. So in other words, we're never editing a folder.

[00:04:40]
We're never programming it to do something. All folders do is hold stuff. That's it. You have to open them within the file system. You never open them like a program or a document. If you think about opening a Word document, you double-click on something, it opens up, you can make changes to it.

[00:04:56]
But if you open a file, you're in your open dialog box, or you're in your save dialog box. So folders are really just there for your convenience, and they should be organized in a way that makes sense to you. In other words, you don't have to have any folders anywhere on your computer, if you don't want to.

[00:05:15]
And I've seen computers organized that way. It's terrible, you can't find anything. But typically these days, your phone, your tablet, your computer, actually have a file system for you. You may not even be aware of it. You're gonna take those pictures right off your phone, you're gonna download them, they go to quote, my photos.

[00:05:35]
That happens to be a folder that's somewhere in your computer that contains all your photos. And you may already make folders inside of it for a certain vacation trip or certain period of time. So that's a little bit about files and folders. Those are the same whether you are talking about a Mac or a PC.

[00:05:53]
And so, for the next videos, you should take a look at the ones that are relevant to the computer that you are going to be working with. If you're gonna be using a PC, look at those videos. If you're gonna be using a Mac, look at those videos.

[00:06:05]
And you can skip the other operating systems videos.

