[00:00:00]
>> Speaker 1: Hello Mac people. This video is for you. If you're a PC person, skip right on over this video and go watch a video of the same name but is for PC people and for Windows 10. This is just for you Mac people. So as you take a look at your Macintosh, I assume you have basic computer skills, you're pretty familiar with how your Mac looks.

[00:00:22]
This is the desktop of my computer. It's super clean cuz I cleaned it all off for you. Nothing there to confuse you. So as you see here, the only thing that's available to me is my hard drive. If you click somewhere here on the desktop where there's nothing located, so if you have a bunch of files and stuff all over your desktop, just click somewhere where there's nothing.

[00:00:43]
You'll see this menu come up across the top of your Macintosh, this is called the finder, and the finder is your files and folders. And so, we can get into this by simply going into File under the Finder and then going to New Finder Window. This is gonna go ahead and open up a window here that's gonna show you all of your files and folders that were created, in my case, created recently here on this computer.

[00:01:11]
So over here on the side, we have a bunch of stuff. We have a desktop that is a folder. We have downloads, that's a folder. We have documents, that's a folder. The Cloud drive, that's a folder. Dropbox, that's a folder. Recent, that's a folder. Everything is a folder, okay?

[00:01:29]
And so you can get on in here and you can move around and click on things and get inside of these folders. That's the way that you would go about doing that.
>> Speaker 1: Now let's talk very specifically about extensions for your various files and so forth. So you might have noticed here in my recent files that I have a bunch of files here.

[00:01:57]
For example, I have this file here and it's called index.HTML. So it's got a dot after it and some more letters. Now if you take a look at your recent files, over there on the side, you may see a bunch of files here that have nothing after that.

[00:02:12]
So it might just say index or accordion or styles. And of course, you should know too that these are my recent files. Your recent files are going to be different, you're gonna have different things in this particular folder. So you might be wondering how you can turn that on so that you can see .html or .css, or .png.

[00:02:32]
I've got a bunch of stuff going on in there. And so the way you would go about doing that is you're going to go, make sure you're still in your finder. It says finder up here in the upper right-hand corner. And you're going to go to Finder > Preferences.

[00:02:49]

>> Speaker 1: And then you wanna click on the Advanced tab.
>> Speaker 1: And in here, we want to make sure that the item that says, show all filename extensions, make sure that is checked. Make sure that is checked off and probably, the best place to be as you do that is probably on your desktop.

[00:03:11]
Just make sure that those extensions are turned on pretty much everywhere. But go ahead and check that box that says, show all file name extensions and then you can go ahead and close that box. And then when you go back to your recents folder, you may need to go out of it and then go back into it.

[00:03:31]
You should wind up seeing some sort of extensions, some kind of dot followed by those letters. And it's usually three to four letters after the name of the file and those are called extensions. So this is telling me that I have, these are HTML files, that's a JavaScript file.

[00:03:48]
This is a CSS file, this is a PDF file. So I have all kinds of different files that are going on here in my recents folder.
>> Speaker 1: All right, and so that is the way that you're gonna go ahead and get access to your files and folders here on your Mac and make sure that you have your extensions turned on, super important as you start web development.

