[00:00:00]
>> And so just to recap what we've done starting from 0, we saw how that we could use the Angular CLI to generate a lot of stuff, IE components, services interfaces very, very quickly. And so, when you're building an application, especially from the ground up, I recommend leverage the CLI to the max.

[00:00:26]
And then from there, we have successfully went upon a journey, an epic journey to build out a master detail view in Angular that not only uses component driven architecture, but communicates with a RESTful API. And so for me when I am working with developers and mentoring them, or as part of an engagement that I'm training developers kind of that first step that I wanna get new developers to is to be able to write an application that can successfully complete a full crud cycle.

[00:01:12]
So let's create, read, update. And delete. And so in this case, what we have is we've been able to consume courses from a remote courses API, which we can see here, and then display that. But then also, we have the ability to select it, edit it, update it.

[00:01:36]
And in doing so we have seen how to wire up routing to route from one, kinda one. Let's say section of the app to the other and then as well using forms, we have the ability to capture a bind to a data structure or a model, update it and then save it back out and push it to the data layer.

[00:02:06]
The one thing that I think is important to mention that I have said a few times is that when you are dealing with forms because they are mutated by nature, that it's important to one, encapsulate that form into a standalone component, but then also isolate that mutation. And how we did that is by taking the object that we wanted to bind to and then just creating a copy of that.

[00:02:40]
We also had a pretty interesting discussion about why I personally am not convinced that reactive forms provide as much value as the marketing brochures would leave you to believe. Because I think everything that you do can be done with in a lot of ways, way more efficiently using template driven forms.

[00:03:07]
And so here we are at the end of this journey with what I would consider to be a really good cut at what has all the makings of being a non trivial application. And so I'd say from here, kind of that next step would be to dig into enterprise angular patterns, enterprise angular development as a whole, just enterprise angular development as a whole and start to look at how to expand upon this by implementing NGRX.

[00:03:43]
And also I recommend Cypress, and instead tools and just looking at ways to take this, and then just incrementally expanded out into an application that maybe has 3, 4 or 5 features, as well as the ability to log in and log out etcetera, but. If you've made it this far, thank you so much.

[00:04:11]
I really, really appreciate the time that we've spent over the course of this workshop. And as always, please hit me up on Twitter if you get stuck, or you do something awesome, or something awesome happens. In your programming journey, this is why I love to do this. And your success is ultimately my success.

[00:04:35]
So I appreciate everybody who has attended this workshop. And anybody in the future, yes, I'm talking to you, who goes through this workshop, and I really hope that you build better things better.

