[00:00:00]
>> So who is accessibility for? Because I think sometimes the idea of accessibility, when you're a developer or a technologist, sometimes the purpose of accessibility can get sort of lost in the messaging. Of like, we're gonna add these attributes and we're gonna make our HTML accessible and things.

[00:00:20]
But we wanna understand the goal, which is to prevent and remove barriers to access for people with disabilities. So for people who can't see, people who can't use a mouse, people who navigate by voice for various reasons. There are techniques that we can incorporate that are not all that challenging, they're just forgotten some of the time.

[00:00:45]
Some of the techniques are more advanced and more challenging. But there are also some basics that as tech leads, if we can remind people to include the basics and do a regular workflow for accessibility, I bet we could make a huge impact. So that's kind of my personal challenge today, is to help you all help other people, cuz it's like this thing grows and I'm so into that.

[00:01:14]
So we'll dive deeper into kind of how to do that, how to work with people, how to persuade throughout this workshop. I have kind of a recent example of increasing awareness. I gave a presentation at my job, I work at an agency called Principal Studios, and I went there to be a more general web developer, not an accessibility specialist.

[00:01:38]
But I could see that, that knowledge that I have with accessibility would really, like I had to share it. I'm seeing things in code reviews, I'm seeing things just in historical practices of what's been allowed to ship in the code base, and I had to speak up. So I did, and my coworkers are smart and passionate and caring people.

[00:01:59]
And when I described why we need to include heading elements, so H1 through H6 headings, which we'll talk all about today, my coworker asked, if it's so critical to get the right level, what if we just don't use headings? And so, I have a meme on the screen that says your headings won't be the wrong level if you don't use headings, kind of haha, it's funny, but use headings though, really.

[00:02:23]
And when I pointed out the reason why we use headings and other semantic HTML I shared with them is that, people who can't see the screen have a much easier time getting an overall picture of what's on a page when there are headings to digest. You can navigate by headings, you can see a hierarchy of the content.

[00:02:45]
They're also great for SEO, and reader modes, and other things. But I really tried to stress that the importance of this is for a disabled person's experience. And my co-workers were like, I never thought of it like that before, I get it now. And so that kind of cooperative, open-minded understanding, and knowledge sharing is really fetal for getting people more aware of accessibility so they understand the purpose.

[00:03:13]
We wanna be friendly messengers, which can be hard sometimes, but whenever possible, I think we'll have more success when we can try and bring people along and try to make it. This is serious, it's important, but we also wanna have good professional relationships too. So, it's kind of a balance.

[00:03:33]
At least that's how I approach it. But I was really encouraged by the experience of sharing some information, communicating why it's important. And people just go, I didn't know, cool, thanks for telling me. And then you move on [LAUGH] hopefully with headings [LAUGH]. So what brought you to this workshop?

[00:03:54]
We got some really great stories, some good motivations from you all so far. So I think for anyone watching, consider what brought you here if you haven't already, maybe it's personal interest or curiosity. Maybe it's a career growth area that you're thinking about, or there's a job you really wanna go for.

[00:04:13]
Or maybe it's a professional requirement, like you had requirements at the 11th hour or hopefully earlier [LAUGH]. And so whatever the reason, I am super stoked that you are here because we have the opportunity to make a difference in tech with this topic. So accessibility is the right thing to do, in my opinion, I'm pretty positive about that, but it's also about upholding people's civil rights, people's civil rights to access.

[00:04:40]
And I think that detail tends to get lost in the message when we're focused more on the tech, really, that's the purpose. It's also a component of quality software. When we can write software that is robust, it can respond to new user input events that we didn't even think about ahead of time, but our code is architected so we can respond to any events we want.

[00:05:04]
We can send it any initial state we want from anywhere. When we can write robust software that's accessible, well, it's less costly to maintain because we're not having to jam these features in after the fact like trying to add mobile support after the fact, that can be hard.

[00:05:22]
So the earlier you can incorporate accessibility, the more successful it will be. But sometimes people need more convincing because there's all this debt, because it's going to be expensive, or because people don't think that people with disabilities are part of their audience. So there is a business side to accessibility, I have a link in my slides from a resource from the W3C.

[00:05:47]
So if you wanna go down that route, you have stakeholders to convince, you could bookmark that. There are some misconceptions that it's too costly or too niche to be worthwhile and it does require some additional time. So a big enterprise that I worked with, their estimates were about upfront for someone of their size, they would pad estimates by about 30% upfront.

[00:06:13]
And that was throughout the whole software development life cycle, through planning, design, engineering, QA, all of it. And so that seems like a lot, but the cost of not doing it can be way higher. If you have to redo everything, if you have to hire more people, if you have to totally re-platform and start over, that's going to be way more expensive.

[00:06:36]
And like, even if you don't re-platform, but you're just trying to chip away at these bugs and these defects, that's what they're called in accessibility, you're trying to keep up with those all the time. It's kind of hard to get other feature work done because you're trying to squash bugs and trying to clean up stuff that if it had been planned better in the beginning, maybe it would be easier.

[00:06:58]
So that upfront investment, it really is an investment, and so that's a trade-off. As tech leads, as developers, we're not always in positions to make those decisions but we do estimate scope. We do scoping and planning and backlog grooming and all that stuff, so we can give input.

[00:07:19]
And so if you can put it in, I don't know, numerical terms, quantify it somehow, sometimes that's what leaders want to hear about. So we really can't afford not to do it, especially for big enterprises that have compliance obligations, which we'll talk about as well. So that compliance, that risk, that could be a motivator for an organization, and lots of organizations have different reasons.

[00:07:46]
Sometimes executives have a personal connection to accessibility, a good example is Satya Nadella who's the CEO of Microsoft. He had some family members with disabilities and that experience as a leader, I think has really affected team priorities. I think that's how these decisions get made sometimes is that there's a reason that they get it.

[00:08:14]
That's not always gonna happen, but companies do have, organizations I should say, it's not always just companies, but organizations have legal risk and compliance obligations that can really bubble this up. It depends what type of business you're in. If you're anything procured by the federal government in the United States or Canada, the UK and Australia, at least to name some, and that depends on laws that are on the books a lot of times.

[00:08:44]
If you're in education, you probably have to do some things for accessibility, I mean, you would think. It's amazing how many opportunities are missed for accessibility, so that's why we're here, is to try and make that better. There is also market pressure for accessibility. So especially in the United States where we have a litigious culture, a lot of accessibility is decided in the courts.

[00:09:09]
I don't love that part of it, to be honest, but that is a reality, at least in the U.S. So, the market pressure could come from you lost business because your product isn't accessible and somebody else's is, and so that could be losing contracts. You could have a competitor that got sued in the U.S. and that could give you some market pressure of, well, they're fixing their stuff, we should be thinking about that, too.

[00:09:38]
We could be next, you know? So that kind of competitive landscape could at least get maybe a little bit of movement. And so there's a lot to learn about the legal side, and depending on what country you're in, there are different laws, if there are any. So you could read up on the legal requirements for accessibility in your area.

[00:10:00]
And someone I recommend following is Lainey Feingold. She's a disability rights attorney from California, she's been in the accessibility community for decades. I love her. And she has a lot of really great articles and some information about global accessibility laws, so you can check those out. So the goal of this workshop, at the heart of it, I really want to instill these concepts.

[00:10:29]
I want you to understand the core requirements for digital accessibility in the enterprise. So we'll get tactical, how, what are we looking for? What do we not want to let ship? And as tech leads, you should be able to advise team members on how to produce accessible quality software.

[00:10:47]
It's like if you're leading, you should be able to give advice. Maybe you're not totally up to speed on every technique, but you at least know the concepts and you could point people in the right direction. That would be the goal for today. So, if you're a Windows user, Windows is a very valuable testing environment for accessibility, especially with what we'll cover today for screen readers.

[00:11:13]
So, if you are a Windows user, you should download the NVDA screen reader. It's free, open source, it's used a lot. It's actually more popular than Voiceover on the Mac. I am a Mac user as well, but I still test with Windows using a virtual machine. So just something to put on your software list, if you have VMs at work that you can use, it's super helpful and seamless.

[00:11:39]
I use parallels on my Mac, we'll probably fire it up today. And that will allow you to test things in a Windows screen reader that you simply just can't test that same way with Voiceover because they work differently. And I'll tell you why a little bit later. And parallels comes with a Windows license.

[00:11:57]
I just had to reinstall it on this new machine and it was really easy. So, check that out if you are a Mac user. You may want to remap some of your laptop keys if you are a Mac user. So, in Windows keyboards you have an insert key and I actually have a physical Windows keyboard that I use at my home office and that has an insert key but Mac keyboards do not.

[00:12:24]
So a lot of people will map their caps lock key to be the insert key, it's kind of just like a modifier key that you can hold when you test with NVDA. But I actually didn't have to remap anything when I installed parallels this last week so it seems maybe they ironed that out, I'm not sure.

[00:12:42]
And it was also very awesome in parallels, something that had changed from previous is that I could pull up my file system and local host stuff on the Windows side pretty easily, so that was cool.

