[00:00:02]
>> Estelle Weyl: So the next section is Pseudo-elements. And you can find it on the GitHub page, and slide 79 which is where we're starting. So there are several Pseudo-elements and since CSS 2.1, they've had two colons in front of them to differentiate between Pseudo-elements and Pseudo-classes. If you actually put one colon, they work fine, but the correct syntax is two.

[00:00:26]
So we have first-line, first-letter, selection, before, and after. And interestingly, selection is not in the specification, not even yet in CSS sockages level four. Pseudo-classes select elements that actually exist. There is something before the element. There's an opening and closing tag or a full tag. Pseudo elements create these faux or fake, if you've ever heard of faux pearls, that means they're not really pearls, but it sounds French so it sounds fancy.

[00:00:57]
So it's like a faux element that creates a fake before and after and then whatever content is in there you can style. So in this section the first-letter pseudo element it's as if there was a first element tag and a first element tag right around that first letter so in this case I have targeted with the selector the first letter of the paragraph that is the first of its type.

[00:01:26]
And the reason I have chosen to do first of its paragraph first of its type is because if I didn't the drop caps would look absolutely horrendous and it would be impossible to read. So this is an example of combining pseudo element with a pseudo class,
>> Estelle Weyl: Or a structural selector.

[00:01:46]
To just hit one thing that you really want to hit. So you can always use combinations like this. So in this case it's as if that letter Y itself was in its own element. And we were able to style it. But because it is a letter you kind of have to position it to give it.

[00:02:05]
You can't. It's like an in line spin, you can't do everything to it. But in this case, by positioning it, we've given it three times the size and floated it. And the reason that we floated it because if we didn't float it, it looks better. It floats it, and you put the text around it.

[00:02:30]
So that's first-letter. It's just a way to style the first letter, which is usually used for drop caps. Next we have selection, and here I am selecting this, and it is red. Everywhere else that I selected something, it wasn't red. It was blue. Which was the default, but here I changed the selection.

[00:02:51]
And here it says, in this slide, anything that I select, make the background red and the color white.
>> Estelle Weyl: Thought there would be more balloons outside this. I'm gonna cover it a little bit more again later.

