[00:00:02]
>> Estelle Weyl: So to better understand grids we have terminology. A grid line is a line basically in the gutter. There's one on the left of grid, there's one on the right of the grid, and then there's one between each row and each column. There's one on the top and there's one on the bottom.

[00:00:19]
So if you have a three by three grid, you actually have four lines going vertically and four lines going horizontally. A grid cell is any cell, such as the number ten.
>> Estelle Weyl: A grid area is a space basically, I have no clue what a grid area is. It's basically when you just basically say this area here because you can give certain things names.

[00:00:46]
And we're gonna cover that later on. A grid track is either a grid row or a grid column. It's any area between two grid lines, vertically or horizontally. So grid row is when it's horizontal. And a grid column is one that is vertical, and then the gutter is the grid gap that is in between here, that white space.

[00:01:09]
I'm just going to open this up in the debugger right here, so this is the grid gap here, this is a grid cell. 7 through 12 is a grid row. 2 through 20, or there might be at some below, is a grid column. And then the grid line is this line on the left, the line in between here, the line between here, the line between 3 and 4, the line between 4 and 5.

[00:01:33]
The line between 5 and 6, and the line right after number 6, so that's a grid line. Let's see, is it ready, let's check, can I use and have it not work for us? So can I use? If we go to grid, look at all that beautiful green.

[00:02:01]

>> Estelle Weyl: It dropped into production I think on October 17th in MS Edge. And since then, it's basically every single Evergreen browser has it. Older versions of IE, so if I show all of them have an older syntax of Grid. So you can actually use grid with all of the edge and strong with IE 10, but it has a slightly different syntax.

[00:02:26]
I'm not gonna cover that syntax today.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay, so the properties we've seen so far are the display element with grid, or we could have in-line grid. We've show template columns, which you might not have noticed, but that was basically determining the sizes of the different columns. We created a grid gap.

[00:02:49]
There was room between the gaps. On the child, we placed that pink element using grid columns and grid row. And we also had two new values, which you may have never seen before. For the grid-template-columns, we had used a unit called fr and we had repeated some stuff.

[00:03:10]
So we're going to cover all of that right now. So first let's start by setting up the grid. To set up the grid [COUGH] we have properties that are on the parent. We have the display property. We have the display template columns, which says basically the width of all the columns.

[00:03:32]
The grid template rows, which is the height of all the rows. We have a shorthand for it, which is grid template. And then we can have a grid column gap and grid row gap. Which there's a shorthand, and you can just say grid gap, and not just the vertical and horizontal spacing.

[00:03:52]
In grid, all of your vertical gaps are going to be the same size, and all of your horizontal gaps are going to be the same length as well. But those could be two different lengths. What you can't have, and you probably don't want is different sized gaps between things.

[00:04:07]
So we're going to cover those first, then we're going to cover great items then we're going to cover the other properties of how to align full rows.

