[00:00:02]
>> Estelle Weyl: So, let's talk about adding the gutters. So far, I added gutters I believe, or no, did I not? I added gutters to make it look better but I didn't tell you about it, because this is what a gut looks like without gutters, right? That's ugly. And one of the nice things, that way you don't have to worry about margins, you always have the same amount of margins between cells.

[00:00:25]
It's really nice to have a nice layout with good white space, white space makes websites much more readable. So instead of saying, here's a paragraph of text, and I want padding here and then margins. You can just say, well there's gonna be 20 pixels between any element, so it's going to be legible.

[00:00:45]
Okay, so we have three properties. We have the grid column gap, the grid row gap, and then just the short hand which is the grid gap. And margin does actually still work on these, so let's go over here and play with it. So when I say grid row, it's between each row.

[00:01:15]
When I say column gap, it's between the columns. When I undo this one right here, it's gonna be the exact same because the order is row and then column. So top to bottom, left right. Which makes it less confusing than when we were doing the tables. Okay, so here let's just make it 40 pixels, and then 10.

[00:01:47]
And that might make you realize why you probably just wanna do one number overall for column gap, cuz that looks much better, right? Having it even. You can use different units, right? One m instead, but let's actually put margin on one of these. Li:nth-of-type(3). Margin 20 pixels.
>> Estelle Weyl: So margin still works.

[00:02:22]

>> Estelle Weyl: Box-sizing border-box.
>> Estelle Weyl: I just wanted to see what that did. And then we can put padding, 30 pixels. And it just changed the whole layout of the page because the FR unit is now a different length. Right, before it maintained the same length. But then now that I added padding, that element is much bigger.

[00:02:57]
Between the margin and the padding, the element got much bigger, which shrank the amount of free space. Okay, so what I want you to do over the next five minutes is to create a grid. So there's a little thing here says, try it out. And I want you to create a grid container with the display property.

[00:03:19]
I want you to create the columns and the rows with either or grid template area, but we didn't go over grid template area. So just forget that there's an or here, and the word either. And then optional add a gutter with grid gap or grid-column-gap and grid-row-gap.

