[00:00:02]
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay, so grid item properties. We've talked about grid-column-start, grid-column-end, grid-column, grid-row-start, grid-row-end, grid-row. Did we talk about grid-area? Yes we did. That's the short hand. Okay. And then later on, we're going to have justify-self and align-self, which are basically just overrides for justify content in align-content but just for one cell.

[00:00:30]
Okay, so let's place an item again. And then I have to remember why I,
>> Estelle Weyl: Why I put this here, what I was supposed to cover in terms of this one. I don't know. So let's actually play with the layout. So we have a holy grail layout, right?

[00:00:51]
Do you remember the holy grail layout when we do with the flex box? Well we can do it with grid as well, and grid is sometimes a more appropriate way to do it.
>> Estelle Weyl: So just one other thing before I go onto that holy grail layout. The difference, basically, between Flexbox and grid is, do you see that number 4 how it spans two lines?

[00:01:20]
There is no way to do that in Flexbox. In Flexbox, it basically goes all the way across on one line. Both of them you can change the order, right? But when you change the order in Flexbox, it just basically places it between the two cells beforehand. When you change the order in grid you're basically saying put this exactly here, this is where I want it, and everything else is just gonna flow around it.

[00:01:45]
If you actually place two items in exact same location, that's fine in grid. You can actually place one thing on top of the other. So let's go on to the holy grail, which is basically you want to display grid, columns. You're gonna divide it into six parts. One third is gonna be between the nav and the aside, and then the main area or the main article, is going to be in the middle, taking up two-thirds of it.

[00:02:19]
And then the rows, you want the header to be 3m's high, you want the content to be all the available space that's left over, and you want the footer just to be half the the size of the header. So that's what we're going to do.
>> Estelle Weyl: We're gonna do a little bit more.

[00:02:40]
We're gonna basically say that grid-row for the header goes from the first, it basically takes up the whole first row. It goes from the first grid line to the second grid line. And the grid column takes up all four columns. The footer is the third row and goes to the fourth, and this is what would have happened anyway, okay?

[00:03:00]
But then what I had to do was I had to add the style, which you never have to do in real life, because right here I displayed the style block, so it's on the page. So I want the style to stay at the bottom. So I basically give it a style, put it on the fourth row, and make it go all the way across.

[00:03:18]
So we're gonna actually play with a style and change the style, why not? So let's get rid of this. And there we go. So what happened? The header went from the first grid line to the second grid line and from the left most grid line to the right most grid line.

[00:03:39]
The navigation takes up all the free space. No, it doesn't, it takes up two-thirds of it. And each one of these takes up one-sixth because we have 1fr 4fr 1fr. What's one plus four plus one? I can't do math this early in the morning. Somebody could count it with their toes, no, with their fingers, that's better.

[00:03:58]
Keep your shoes on. We won't go above ten, so that we don't have to count with our toes. And then grid-template-rows, the first one is 3 ems, we could change it to 4 ems or 5 ems if we want the header to be taller. The middle part takes all the available space after that, because the bottom part is just 1.5 ems.

[00:04:19]
So we've declared an absolute length on the footer, and on the header and basically said that middle area, the article, nav and aside, distributed over rows in the middle. Okay, so header, footer, style. Let's change the style. Because why not? Let's just make it go from 1 to 3.

[00:04:49]
Why not? Let's make it go from 4 to 7. That doesn't make a difference right? Because now if we actually added items, it'd be one here, one here, and one here. Because it's now going across Three rows, all right? It's going to take you from 4 to 5, 5 to 6, and 6 to 7.

[00:05:09]
But because we don't have any extra cells, it doesn't matter. If I did just 2 to 3, and 1 to 3,
>> Estelle Weyl: And then I'm going to take the nav and I'm gonna put it in the same spot. So the nav and the style are the exact same location.

[00:05:40]

>> Estelle Weyl: You can do that. Don't, don't, but you can.

