[00:00:02]
>> Steve Kinney: So transforms. Who here has done a transform? Everyone has done a transform, because that's a transition that everyone's done. Very few people have done transforms. Let's go over transforms. Okay, so here I'm going to use this little RSVP sign for everything. And the reason I said RSVP is because the last time I did it, I did it with a plane, and when you'd flip the plane upside down, you couldn't tell that it was upside down, cuz it was symmetrical.

[00:00:32]
But RSVP, when it's flipped upside down and you can't read it, you can really see it. So this little logo, it's generated content on top of the RSVP. And it's the exact same size, the exact same font. Everything's the exact same except for it has the background color of pale goldenrod and a greenish-blue weird color as a drop shadow.

[00:00:52]
So the original, what it would look like without the transform, is always the white one. The way it looks with the transform is the goldenrod one. Or it's actually gold, I'm not sure. Anyway, so here I've transformed the letters. I've translated it -90 pixels and 300 pixels, which means I've moved it 90 pixels backwards and 300 pixels down.

[00:01:17]
Then I've rotated it 50 degrees, then I've scaled it so it's smaller. It's 70% of the width and 90% of the height, and then I've skewed it. We're gonna go all over those.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's see if I can just not move it down 300 pixels. No, I can't edit this one.

[00:01:43]
So this is how we transform something. We basically change it by translating it, rotating it, and skewing it. You don't have to use all of them, and the order actually matters. It's basically, the syntax is, you can either say transform none, or you can use up to all of these functions, one or more of these functions.

[00:02:04]
And there's actually a fifth function, which we'll cover later. So what is a support? That looks pretty green, doesn't it? Let's show all and then go to IE, cuz that's what we always do. It starts with IE9, and with IE9 it was supported with prefix. If you're not supporting IE9 anymore, don't use a prefix.

[00:02:24]
I do not know about the performance with IE9 and transforms, if it actually causes a problem. And the Blackberry 10, since no one uses it, it doesn't really matter. You don't need to add a web kit prefix for Blackberry.

