[00:00:02]
>> Estelle Weyl: So now let's move on to transitions and animations. If you are following along, the URL is Estelle.GitHub.io/cssmastery/animations. If you haven't heard me say this before. All you have to do is remember my name, Estelle. Go to my GitHub, Estelle.GitHub.io. And either look for the CSS mastery class, and click on the animations link.

[00:00:26]
Or, go to CSS mastery, and you'll find the link there. So, first let's talk about transitions. Now I can ask the question. Who here has ever done a transition? Everyone has, because everyone has changed a link color on hover. That's a transition. It is a transition over zero seconds.

[00:00:47]
You can say, take a full second to do it, and you have a really bad user experience but you can do it. You can also say basically, all the links take two seconds before your transition. That's a nice little April Fool's joke or a horrible April Fool's joke.

[00:01:07]
Okay, so let's talk a little about the transition properties. I just showed you how simple a transition is. You just basically say, do it over one second, and we're good. But we have several transition properties. We have the transition property property, which is the properties you wanna transition.

[00:01:21]
The key term All, which is the default. You have transition duration, which is how long should the transition take. You have transition timing function, which is a Bezier curve of transition and we'll go deep dive into this during the animation. So if you don't understand that yet, don't worry.

[00:01:37]
Transition delay is the seconds or milliseconds, and it is required that you include the s or the ms before the transition starts. The MS and the S are both required for transition duration and transition delay. And then there is a transition which is short hand for all four properties.

[00:01:55]
So, in this example, wooo that is bad, but yes, it is transitioning. On hover, when I hover over the code, the color goes from black to red. Maybe, I don't know. The font size goes from 85% to 120%. The background color goes from white opaque to white slightly less opaque.

[00:02:19]
And here we go. It actually is blue, not red. The color used to be red on this deck, and I changed it to blue. I did a global search and replace, and this is what happens. So basically it's the same as writing. So what I wrote, my transition code is code, transition color, font size, and background size, over two seconds, ease in but wait 50 milliseconds for it to go.

[00:02:48]
So if I go like this, it didn't start transitioning because I was over that slide for less than 50 milliseconds. If you're gonna do a transition effect on a link other than just changing the color, it's good to wait 50 milliseconds just in case someone is dragging them out to one part of the page to the other.

[00:03:04]
50 milliseconds is not long enough for someone to notice a delay. But having something jump out of them is noticable. I could have also written all 2s ease-in 50 ms. What is transitioning is any property that is from the previous state to the current state. A better effect because you saw how choppy that was, right, would be to actually use transforms.

[00:03:36]
So here, look how nice and smooth that is. The problem is because I'm transforming it, I'm growing it, right? Before I was pushing the bottom code down, and here I'm not, I'm actually going right over it.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay, so when you're transitioning something, the stacking context comes up, so that's why the z index might be the exact same, but that code is gonna be on top of it because the bottom one is not being transitioned.

[00:04:10]
So this is a better effect, has better performance. But it might not be the effect you want. Yes.
>> Speaker 2: You keep the same like ounce in the like the flow of the page edge, when you're transforming it like that.
>> Estelle Weyl: Yeah. Nothing else would have moved. It's only repainting that one element and it's growing it bigger.

