[00:00:00]
>> What is NodeJS? Well, NodeJS is JavaScript kind of like what I said before, but more specifically it's a run time built on Chrome's V8. So if you've never heard of Chrome's V8 it's the engine that sits inside of Chrome that actually compiles your JavaScript down to machine code so it can be processed, because JavaScript actually has to be interpreted and execute it on a machine.

[00:00:23]
V8 is the engine that does that. So some really smart person decided to strip V8 out of Chrome and stick it on a machine. And that allows you to run node, and that's basically what we have here. And everything is built on top of that. So just like on the front end, JavaScript and node is also gonna be based off an event loop, which if you don't really know what that means, we'll get into that a little more but just know is that JavaScript is single threaded.

[00:00:52]
As in it's only going to be able to process work and amount of work in like one little isolated instance. And then everything else kind of runs in the background. This allows node to be able to process things much faster than a lot of other OSS level languages, as long as those tasks are not CPU bound.

[00:01:13]
So if you're not doing things like arithmetic or AI, or machine learning node js is probably a perfect tool for you because it can handle things and put them in the background and continue to stay open to handle incoming requests and things like that. That's why it's a very popular tool because it kind of allows you to scale a lot faster for smaller tasks like APIs which are 90% of backend apps these days.

[00:01:37]
So that was a whole lot. Well we're gonna cover a lot of that stuff. And like I said, here's a some of the use cases that I think are really, really good for node js. Some of the things you see in the wild, some of the things that I've used personally, myself, so things like API's and servers, which we are gonna cover today, we're gonna be going over that and how to do that.

[00:01:57]
Databases. Yes, they literally are some databases built in JavaScript. And it kind of blows my mind how people get away with this because I've like looked at source code. I'm like, first, I don't even know how to make a database. And second of all, the fact that you did it in JavaScript is just even more amazing.

[00:02:10]
But yeah, I've seen databases built in node COIs. So a command line interface if you've ever used Git, you've ever used anything in your terminal, your command prompt that was a command line interface. We're also gonna be covering some of that as well. So you'll be making your own CLIs.

[00:02:25]
Build tools and automations. If you're a front end developer, you're probably familiar with something called Bubble, maybe even TypeScript, WebPack, RollUp. All those tools are built and executed in the node runtime. So if you've never used node as a front end engineer, but you've used those tools, well, you have been using node this whole time because those tools execute in node before your app actually gets deployed to the browser.

[00:02:49]
That's what node is doing. Basic scripting. You want some automation setup to do some shortcut get commands. You wanna have some basic commands in your terminal that don't exist, you can do that. Simple automations that open up a browser and buys a pair of sneakers for you, stuff like that.

[00:03:05]
And like I said, GPU shopping for bots because no one can buy a GPU right now. You could pretty much do all this stuff in node and more and we'll be covering a lot of it. So I'm super excited. So let's jump right in and get started with node.js.

[00:03:22]
So the first thing obviously is we need to install node.js and there are a few ways to do it. And it also depends on the machine that you're on. So for the windows folks out there if you're not running WSL or WSL two, which is like a Linux environment embedded inside of windows, if you don't have that, then I do recommend going to the official node js installer on the nodejs.org website where it'll detect your operating system and it'll allow you to download it.

[00:03:53]
Mine says Mac because I'm on a Mac. If yours was a Windows, it would probably say Windows. So I recommend installing it that way. But if you aren't on Windows, or anyone else who's not windows basically, I do recommend using something called NVM or node version manager. If you are not on Windows I do recommend using something called NVM, which stands for node version manager.

[00:04:18]
The definition is in the name. It's literally a tool that manages different versions of node on your machine. And the reason why I recommend this is for a few reasons. One, it's very convenient to be able to switch to different versions of node because different versions of nodes have different features, different language, support and things like that.

[00:04:37]
So you can apply your app to different targets great for testing, great for determining, you know what version you need on a deployment platform. It's just very useful. And then also on a Mac, at least in my experience and working with others, when you install from the official source, sometimes you have permission errors with the folders where node actually gets installed.

[00:04:57]
You just kind of have to like sudo everything and it just gets really crappy. So to avoid that node version manager just doesn't work around it doesn't install inside of that folder that causes those permission errors. So yes, I highly recommend NVM and if you go to there, you click on that link that I have and you go to their repo,if you scroll down, you'll see a nice copy and paste double curl thing here that you can paste and run and it'll pretty much get you set up and good to go.

[00:05:22]
So if you don't have node installed yet, I do recommend installing it. If you do have node installed, we are going to use a specific version. The one that we're going to use is going to be the latest LTS or was it long term support or lifetime support.

[00:05:39]
It's one of those. It's the one that they plan on supporting on the long run for now, although it's not the absolute latest .16 would be the latest but it's not the latest LTS. So we're gonna use the latest LTS, which right now is 14.7.0. So if you don't have that version, I would at least recommend downloading version 14 at the minimal to make sure you have some of the things that we're gonna cover in this course because we are gonna be using some of the bleeding edge things because I want this course to be somewhat future proof and I don't want to teach outdated things and older versions.

[00:06:11]
So yes, I highly recommend downloading at least version 14 here to be able to keep up with what we're doing. If you do download version 16 you should be more than fine. There's nothing wrong with that. I just want to support the long term support version of node js.

[00:06:28]
Okay, and once you have NVM installed, you could actually just run this command right here NVM install --LTS and this is gonna install that latest version for you. So you don't have to figure out which one it is. If you don't put that LTS flag, I think it will install version 16 which again is also fine as long as it's at least 14.

[00:06:47]
So whatever you wanna do, install that latest version so we can get going and making some stuff.

