[00:00:00]
>> The sky is really the limit. If you start thinking about the work that you're doing on servers now with what you're doing with your API. And you can even do things like if you wanna run an express server, there's an express lambda server, where you can set up an express server as a server less function.

[00:00:18]
So if you have a node app that you wanna migrate over, an easy path could be to use your Express app as a lambda. You can do the same thing with GraphQL like GraphQL serverless. You can run a GraphQL endpoint on there, I think it was actually called lambda.

[00:00:42]
Yeah, so you can deploy Apollo server Lambda, if you wanna run a GraphQL endpoint off of a serverless function. There are a whole bunch of things that you can do, and the limits start to be more around shifting your thinking to serverless than around the practicality of it, it's definitely gonna work, or almost definitely gonna work.

[00:01:04]
As a developer, I think I have to always preface everything with well, it depends, there's a chance this isn't gonna work. But for the majority of use cases, for the majority of things that we're doing on the web, for the majority of things that we're doing with servers and processing data, there's probably a path forward with serverless that would give you some opportunities to do some really exciting stuff.

[00:01:26]
And in most cases, you'd be able to bring a lot of what you're already doing to that world. You just get to eliminate a lot of that server management. You get to eliminate the boilerplate, the DevOps, the routing and the kind of headache of configuration of getting all of these things set up and tuned in scaling.

[00:01:43]
You get to skip past that part and go straight to the fun part, which is writing the logic and making your apps do cool things. Because you're trusting a huge cloud provider to manage all of that scaling and DevOps stuff. That's what they're good at, they're the best in the world.

[00:01:57]
They hire people and hundreds of thousands of dollars a year to make this stuff work. So we can trust them to keep that stuff running. And we can focus on the parts that make our apps and our businesses function, the actual business logic. And that's why I think that's what makes serverless such an exciting technology for me.

[00:02:16]
And why I think it's such a powerful thing that we can do and use to really power up the things that we build and to unlock some pretty exciting possibilities without having to scale up to a full team or multiple teams to build this stuff. You as a solo developer can use this technology to build so much, to accomplish virtually unlimited things, right?

[00:02:40]
Because you're not having to manage so many things. You're just writing some JavaScript. So I think that's what got me excited about it. And that's why it's what I kind of reach for when I start building any new app. I'm looking at, use that jam stack approach on the front end, try to limit the front end to be just some static files.

[00:03:05]
And for the API side, I wanna use serverless functions for as long as I can. There are so many good cloud based options for custom data. We use Hasura today, the examples that I showed for stripe use fauna. Strapping is another good option. Sanity.io is another good option, these cloud hosted kind of data or content management solutions where they're really flexible.

[00:03:28]
You can do whatever you want with them. And then there are all these specialized software as a service platform, Stripe is a great example. They do one thing and they do it extremely well. And they do it through an API service. So we just use a serverless function to talk to Stripe's API.

[00:03:44]
We get amazing apps out of that. I think I've talked a lot about this. I'm very excited about it. I don't know if you can tell. And I'm really, really excited to see what you can build with it. So if anybody has questions, please hit me with them.

[00:04:00]
If you don't have questions, please send me your ideas. I wanna know what you're gonna build. Send me the apps that you build with this stuff. Because I wanna see it. I wanna see what you're coming up with.

