[00:00:00]
>> Steve Kinney: There's another really great tool called Electron Forge. Electron Forge, if you ever use something like Create React app, which is like, you don't need Create React app to make a React application. But, if you don't want to wire everything up by hand, and you just want sensible defaults for a lot of stuff we're doing, Electron Forge will do that for you.

[00:00:17]
So with Electron Forge, you just install it as a global dependency, or use MPX, and you basically say end it in the name of a new project and it will wire up the basics of your project for you. The application we're gonna use next is made by Electron Forge, but I jammed my own CSS in there again as well and changed the file structure a little bit, so it's the same the previous one because Electron does not have a pre-described one.

[00:00:43]
If you look at the screenshot you see over in the upper right hand corner there's templates. You'll get a pretty plain old Electron application if you just do Electron Forge init. But you can also give it a template of Typescript or React, and there's a whole bunch in there you can kinda look through and see.

[00:01:02]
And you can pick one of those templates as a good starter too, if there's a given tool or framework that you know you like to use, it will set all of that out for you. I just went with a very plain one to keep things simple in this case, but that's definitely an option you might wanna look into.

[00:01:17]
And there's gonna be other things that we do later in this workshop that are basically taken care for you out of the box by Electron Forge as well, such as packaging and stuff along those lines. Cool, so like I said, it's like React app but for Electron. It comes with some of the most popular userland tools built in, the third party, kind of open source libraries a lot of people use.

[00:01:38]
So there will be one or two things that we talk about today that we'll just get for free with Electron Forge as well, and it includes, for our purposes, Electron Compile. So again, you can install it globally, you can init a new-application, and you will get the basics there.

[00:01:55]
So we are gonna use something very similar to that for Clip Master, the next application that we're gonna build.

