[00:00:00]
>> All right, so let's fix some code, shall we? If you haven't already pulled down the project, this is gonna be our first example where we really go dig into the code. So let's pull this open, we'll do a little bit of a tour here. So, we're on Exercise 3, Fix Some HTML.

[00:00:24]
I guess, before I go over here, I'll show you what it is that we're fixing. So we have a product for a dog float coat, in case you wanna go kayaking or stand up paddling with your dog. They're gonna need a PFD, or personal flotation device. So this product that maybe I buy somebody's dog for Christmas or something has a product page.

[00:00:48]
It's kind of in progress, it has a ton of components in it that take a lot of time to build. But there's some varying degrees of accessibility or not built in. So our mission in this exercise is to find as much that we can improve, while focused on the HTML part, we're gonna build on this in the next few examples.

[00:01:13]
But let's see if we can fix some HTML that we find in here. So there's a little color picker. It's not totally hooked up to the bigger image gallery yet, but it does have these little lists of images. We have a size picker. There is the start of a photo gallery here.

[00:01:32]
So speaking of dialogs, that, hint, hint, could be something that we make into a dialog. It's basically just the first attempt at getting a layer to cover the content. So our approach for that, we are totally open-ended, what we can do with that. That'll especially be later in our focus management section.

[00:01:55]
Let's see, what else. So we've got some buttons down here. We have a little quantity selector. So, how are those marked up? We can go look at those. So there's some debugging tips on here. So we want to look at keyboard controls, so that's kind of in the realm of HTML, what elements are in there that are accessible?

[00:02:18]
We'll get more advanced with focus management a little later. But headings, landmarks, and accessible names, those are all in the scope of this. So our form labels, or any links, any image alt text. And we can inspect the DOM and run extensions. So this component is embedded in this page, so I can go in here and inspect it and go check it out.

[00:02:46]
There's also a full page, not in the slide deck. And it is, I think this might be the more complete version of it, if you wanna test that. And so there's one that's full screen. Okay, so let's go see where this code lives. So ProductPage, that's the kinda top-level page component that pulls in the header.

[00:03:18]
There's an image gallery. So basically anything with the word product in it, in the component names, those are all going to affect the component on that page. And it is sort of the first go-around for these, so it might not be quite as sophisticated as the real site would have.

[00:03:39]
But it has the start to some of the functionality. So there's the image gallery component. And if you're new to React, so we have a lot of logic and functions that are little utilities that you can call up top. There's a little bit of TypeScript in here. And then if you scroll down, the JSX down below is basically where all of our markup lives.

[00:04:00]
And so the header has multiple components in a file. There's the little banner up at the top, that gets pulled into the product header, which is a little further down, ProductDetails, and so on. And we'll go poke around in here and make some changes. If you have any issues setting up the project, let us know.

[00:04:26]
And then we'll come back and code some fixes together.

