[00:00:00]
>> So, moving on. Hiring recruiter. The second gatekeeper, second user, they play a crucial role as a bridge between the company and the candidate. If you're applying for a software engineering role, the recruiter will be your primary point of contact in the initial point of process. They are the first person that you will interact with.

[00:00:23]
And that makes them one of the most important people. At my current role at Microsoft, we have a gotcha person, right, which is non-technical but you will interact with that based upon how you interact with this person, it may be the fail or pass of whether you get the job, right?

[00:00:51]
It's our way of ensuring that our diversity and inclusion values are met by seeing how you treat people who may be different from you, right? So you have to be very aware of where these people are, I guess, the best way. Anybody ever seen that meme of the dude that played Bain and they were like he treats the janitor the same way he treats the CEO.

[00:01:16]
Which can be a good or bad thing because I know when, like Mark's a CEO and I'll take Mark whenever and he's like, Jerome, I'm like a whole grown-up go- [LAUGH] [INAUDIBLE]. So you could take that as good way or bad way, right? So like I said, hiring recruiters is gonna be your initial contact.

[00:01:37]
Good sign, right? You want to build rapport with your hiring recruiter, right? These person is gonna go to bat for you, they want to see you win. They are different from every other gatekeeper on this. They need you to win cuz guess what? No one wants to be no tied up in the hiring process for long, right?

[00:01:57]
So once you reach this person, this person's whole job is to make sure you look good, right? Your job is to make it look easy, right? When they asked you for your resume, already have a resume built out, the resume is your highlight reel there, they're just snapshot.

[00:02:16]
They're not meant to be super long ,is meant to have just the good stuff and move on with your life, right? Your portfolio, that is your Picasso. Make sure that the above-the-fold content is nice. It's processing fast. We have an entire checklist. We're gonna go through towards the later so and I also added it as a resource.

[00:02:38]
So you don't even have to go and wait for me to tell you that there's about 20, 30 pieces of the checklist for your portfolio that I wanna make sure you're doing. But those are the two rules that I always follow, resumes and snapshot portfolios or Picasa, right?

[00:02:56]
So you always wanna make sure your portfolio tells the full story of how good you are and how good you can be if you're getting this role, they take this opportunity with you, right? And it also is a form of data capture. There're a lot people don't think of when it comes to their portfolio.

[00:03:15]
We're gonna go more into that later.

