[00:00:00]
>> This is, I think, such a powerful way of building because we went from, idea and we skipped over the CSS and stuff. So if you assume with a design cycle and getting all that stuff, that front end review, you're probably looking at maybe a day or two, but you can really just move from idea to production with Astro as your your framework of choice.

[00:00:22]
And so I'm very happy with it overall it's given me a lot of my creative energy back. So when I was younger, I used to build a lot of silly sites to make me laugh. And I would send them to my friends and they were there to troll people and just to kind of be goofy, right like the goofy web.

[00:00:39]
And as frameworks got more complex, building a goofy website got a lot slower and I lost a lot of my taste for it. It was harder to just get an idea out of my brain, and that slowed me down. And so in the case of me building a goofy website, not a huge net loss for the world or for the web, but in the case of of companies that If it's hard for you to try something, then you're not gonna get it out there.

[00:01:04]
You're not going to see how people use it, you're not gonna ship that new idea because it's too much work. And that really prevents us from trying things and learning and understanding how our customers use and interact with the software that we're building. So something that I think is really exciting about Astro is that, by eliminating some of those loops, and getting us to the point where we just have an idea, and then it's shipped, we're back to the point where we can get into an almost real time conversation with our customers.

[00:01:33]
I have an idea, I'm gonna ship it today, we'll have data in a week on how people use it and whether or not they liked it. And then I can go back to the team and say, hey, that really worked, we should double down on this direction of the feature.

[00:01:44]
Or hey, nobody cared about that, let's just quietly sunset that and we'll move on. Even better if you've got feature flagging or something built into your workflow. And I mean, that's Astro in a nutshell. This is, I think a very exciting time to be in web dev because Astro is one of several exciting frameworks.

[00:02:05]
In addition to Astro, solid is just kind of out there saying, hey, what if all the things that we liked about component-based UI frameworks were really fast? Quick is asking, what if you didn't have to do hydration at all? What if the page was just there and it started running as soon as the page was done downloading.

[00:02:24]
There's so much exciting innovation happening in the front end space right now that I hope that what you take away from this isn't, you must use Astro or else. That's not at all what I'm intending to say. I wanna ask her to become a tool in your tool belt that allows you to build things that it's a good match for quickly, to get feedback quickly, so that you can have a little bit of fun, so that you can make those funny sites to troll your friends.

[00:02:48]
And just keep exploring, I hope it gives you some energy to go out and have a lot of fun on the web and spend, spend a little less time getting paged, a little less time, putting out fires, and a little more time doing stuff that's actually enjoyable. A couple resources here just to wrap us up, these are some things that are useful to keep bookmark.

[00:03:15]
The Astro docs are very, very good if you're gonna use nanostores. Nanostores is is is wonderful, again, it's very tiny, and that means that it can be a little bit weird. So having the docs handy is useful. The issues in nanosstores are actually a really good source of information as well, because somebody will say, I can't do this and then they'll show you how you do it because it's not like a .delete.

[00:03:39]
It's a set set key to undefined. [LAUGH] It's stuff like that. Solid docs, React docs the new React Docs, a good friend of mine, Rachel Nabors put a lot of work into those along with other people, and they're excellent. Zod is very, very cool if you haven't tried it.

[00:03:57]
Netify if you wanna get into their documentation. And then I have a bunch of episodes of learn with JSON about Astro with the Astro core team, with others from the ecosystem showing how they've used Astro to build cool stuff including, the multiframework shared state demo from Ari and Diora that inspired the cart that we built today.

[00:04:18]
So definitely check that out and see what you can learn there. All right, thank you so much.
>> [APPLAUSE]

