[00:00:00]
>> Today we're gonna talk about quick I am Misko, I did this thing called Angular JS, and angular currently working on this thing called Qwik. You might have heard of the the karma that I've helped to co create and right now I'm a CTO at Builder.io. Builder.io does a headless visual CMS.

[00:00:17]
Basically, if you wanna add a drag and drop editor into your application, then you can do it with Builder.io and we work across all tech stacks. So, today, I thought we could build a Qwik contacts application. I have an example of what I have in mind as a picture here.

[00:00:34]
And we can go through a couple of things. We go through installing Qwik, we can talk about Qwik-City, file layout overview, how that kind of works. We will talk about building a basic contacts app. How do you display data, which requires components, styling, and adding behaviors to it?

[00:00:49]
How do you delete data, how do you edit data? And of course, how do you create data? And then of course, that requires form validation, and finally, we're gonna talk about login. So, let's talk about Qwik. Why do we need Qwik? And so, I'm gonna try to convince you of three things.

[00:01:03]
One is that the JavaScript is the problem. In other words, the amount of JavaScript we ship to the client is really the problem at hand. It's the reason why we're having so much problems in terms of performance. And the second point I wanna make is that people love to blame the developer people love to basically say like you just got crappy developers.

[00:01:25]
If you only got better developers you wouldn't have this problem. And to you know it's an easy way out and easy way to do the only problem with that theory is that, at least some developers are good and therefore at least some websites should have good performance. But if you look around, you'll discover that most websites do not have good performance, even the websites that have obviously the best developers such as Amazon and eBay, etc.

[00:01:51]
They certainly have better performance I'm not gonna say they have bad performance but it is not as good as it could be. So, I'm gonna point out basically say like it is not your fault and what I mean by that is even if you try to do everything best you will end up in this pit of too much JavaScript.

[00:02:08]
And the reason for that is, in my opinion, is that the way the current frameworks are designed. And so, the big thing with Qwik is that it basically tries to solve that particular problem. Instead of starting with a relatively little amount of JavaScript, and as you build more and more complicated websites, your JavaScript just grows unboundedly.

[00:02:29]
Qwik basically says, no, let's figure out a way to only ship the amount of JavaScript that's actually required. And this is what I mean by that it's not your fault, right? It is the frameworks basically guide you down a path which ends up in too much JavaScript and there's very little you can do about it.

[00:02:47]
And so, that is a solution and the solution I think is Qwik and so let's let's talk about it.

