[00:00:00]
>> Sarah Drasner: There's also this animated Bezier with D3. So later on today I'm gonna talk about the limitations of cubic Bezier. And one of these limitations of cubic Bezier is that it just has two control points. We saw that we have this kind of Q-like thing where we just have the one control point, and this is how that's being made.

[00:00:19]
This is the, see, it's got two control points, but what if you have an infinite amount of control points? You could do so much stuff, and it would be rad. So basically you can play around with this and kind of understand how these Beziers end up, how the computer understands them to end up here.

[00:00:40]
So basically my favorite thing is combining template literals with SVG path points. How many people work with ES6 and know what template literals are? Okay, so most people. Rather than doing string concatenation where we're putting quotes around things and adding, we're basically saying the variable and then we're gonna plus extra thing.

[00:01:02]
And then add the variable again. With template literals we can use back ticks and we're gonna have a dollar sign and two curly braces. And then we put the variable directly in there. So you can see already, when you're working with path points and you're looking at these path points, how valuable that might be.

[00:01:21]
Let's say we're doing something with that Q. What if we wanted to start it from a kind of static place, end with a static place, and then bounce around some middle thing? You can kinda already see where I'm going with that, right? It's really, really cool. So if we wanna make something like a slinky we can start off with an M, with the x coordinate, y coordinate, and an L, x coordinate with y coordinate.

[00:01:48]

>> Sarah Drasner: And then we can change that to using a Q, and basically change it in any direction. If I wanted to simplify it further I could use a T, remember how it was reflected? But I didn't know if I was gonna kinda maybe change one side of it and leave the other side.

[00:02:03]
I wanted to leave it a little bit more flexible. So there's all sorts of things that you can do with creating generative effects with template literals and SVG path point. Okay, so we can combine those slinky effects with a ball of yarn. And this was when yarn was released, I made this pen to kind of celebrate.

[00:02:23]
My friend Jamie worked on that. You can see how you could use that as just one small effect in a bigger pen.

