[00:00:00]
>> We're gonna do it again, except for this time instead of accepting ours, which is theirs, we're gonna accept theirs which is ours. Yeah, so in hello-git let's do a plus five in remote-git, let's do a plus six. So, let's go to. Let's go to our upstream, hello-git and go and do A + 5.

[00:00:29]
A + 5, perfect. I'm gonna go to remote and I'm gonna go in here and go A + 6. Okay, there we go. Git status awesome, git add this, git commit a plus 6. There we go. Now we need to pull in our origin trunk and rebase on it.

[00:00:53]
So git pull --rebase. Again, we have the simple conflict. We just need to resolve it now and then remember, we're going to choose theirs which is ours. We don't want to choose ours, which is theirs. So if you open up the read me, you'll see there's a plus six, which is in the theirs category.

[00:01:12]
So, erase that. Save it. There we go. We've now officially done that. We got a status We add it, if you check in status, you can see right here all conflicts are fixed. run this it's waiting for you to say that you're done, I'm gonna take this command, rebase --continue, awesome.

[00:01:29]
Now, we have a chance to edit our commit message if we want to. I'm gonna keep it as A+6, awesome. So I can go git log --oneline And you can see right here, there's that. Here's our previous change, and now we have the a plus six change. All right.

[00:01:47]
This is where it just gets kind of annoying. We're gonna do this a little bit. Let's just add a new line right below a plus six in hello-git. Just one new line, okay? So let's go to hello-git open up the readme and go new line. Save it, git status, git add, git commit, new line, go back to remote and I'm going to git pull this one in with a rebase.

[00:02:17]
Now remember rebase, checks out the thing I'm going to, replayes the commits one at a time, and look at this. We got a conflict don't fix the conflict, just check it out. Look at that. It's like we're all over again. We're doing the exact same thing again.

[00:02:33]
We've already fixed it yet. Here's the exact same conflict again. So it can A little bit emotionally painful if you have to fix the same conflict over and over and over again. It's almost like I wish Git you could reuse recorded resolutions. That'd be really, really nice, right?

[00:02:57]
That's me saying to your face the The thing you're supposed to use, and you don't realize that I'm saying it if you don't know about it, yeah, it's like the joke, you get it, it is like right there, it's pretty funny. All right, anyway, so we see, this stinks, right?

[00:03:12]
And so we could fix the conflict, don't actually commit it, let's fix the conflict. To the point where we have A+6 plus the new line, right? So I'm gonna have to merge those changes together, right? So I'm gonna have to go delete that, delete this, and then move that one down.

[00:03:29]
Kind of stinks, right? This is where things really get crappy when you have conflicts like that, because then they get really hard to understand. All right, so we're not gonna resolve yet. By the way, does this make sense now with how rebase works? Do we all understand why this happened?

[00:03:51]
The replaying of commits where we're gonna conflict, add infinitum cuz we're just replaying something that has changing the same place twice, remember, it always replays one at a time.

