[00:00:00]
>> My name is Brian Holt and welcome to the Complete Intro To Databases. Greetings from very snowy Minneapolis. I don't know why I keep coming to the city, every time I come it just wants me to leave. [LAUGH] Yeah, and I pumped to be back on Frontend Masters talking about databases this time.

[00:00:22]
I've talked about Linux, I've talked about the command line. I've talked about containers, react, algorithms, intro to web Dev, Boot camp, I'm really taking a trip through Memory Lane comparative frameworks. That was the first one using years ago. Today we're gonna be talking about one of my favorite topics, which is databases.

[00:00:41]
So yeah, let's just go ahead and get started. The first thing I want you to see here, is I have this nice little course website if you've taken one of my previous courses, the format should look relatively familiar to you. You'll see here that we have some very lovely artwork from Alice Pearson.

[00:01:02]
She does all the work for all my courses and this is probably my favourite one she's done so far. So let's go ahead and get into some introductions. So I've been working in the field for over a decade at this point, and I've used a variety of databases across my various different jobs.

[00:01:20]
And so I'm excited to share with you some of my hard won battle knowledge that I've gotten from crashing databases, dropping tables when I shouldn't have. Literally my first week at my first job, I dropped an entire MySQL database that I was definitely not supposed to. So I'm gonna teach you how to not do that.

[00:01:38]
And I just I think databases are fun. Maybe it's just being a glutton for punishment, but I do enjoy actually interacting with databases. That's what I do on my free time. It's actually not true, I don't do this in my free time but I do enjoy this part of my job.

[00:01:53]
Cool. So who is this course for? This course is for I'm hoping everyone, right? Everyone, I think can gather some knowledge from this. Just kind of understanding the various kinds of databases that are available to when you would choose one, how to choose one, what kind of tradeoffs you're making by choosing one versus the other?

[00:02:14]
This course is most useful if you have at least a little bit of familiarity with the command line. Luckily Frontend Masters has a fantastic course on Linux on the command line. Also, it's the one that I taught. So I think it's good. But anyway, so if you don't have familiar with the command line, I recommend you take Take that course first, and then this one will be a lot easier.

[00:02:34]
Cuz you won't have to be learning a bunch of command lines at the same time. I'll also be using containers in this course. There's also another [LAUGH] course from Frontend Masters that I think's pretty good on containers, I also taught that one. You don't have to take down unnecessarily.

[00:02:49]
This course is not centered on containers. You will be running some Docker commands. But you don't need to understand what the Docker commands actually do. And then a little bit of programming knowledge. All the samples will be in Node.js, that's what I know. If you're on Frontend Masters, decent chance you have a little bit of familiar with JavaScript.

[00:03:09]
But even if you don't, it's fine. If you know Ruby, if you know Python, if you know Go, these code samples are going to be simple enough that you should be able to pick them up just fine. Great, yeah. Beyond that, this course should be helpful to anyone that's either coming from the front end or coming from the back end and just wants to learn a little bit more how and where to stick store data.

[00:03:33]
All right, who am I? So I'm Brian. I work at Microsoft as a principal Program Manager on Visual Studio code and the developer experience for JavaScript users on Azure. Primarily I work on the Azure stuff. I've been a developer for a decade. Kind of the thing that's kind of full circle for me this entire thing is my father actually worked on a database at IBM.

[00:03:57]
So my dad worked on and DB2, which is the IBM SQL database. So yeah, that was pretty cool. I've used databases over my entire career, I've worked at Reddit, Netflix, LinkedIn, Microsoft, and some other smaller companies here and there. And I've used a variety of different databases across all these different companies.

[00:04:18]
My first job my very, very first programming job, which was a little shop in Provo, Utah. I wrote primarily SQL that was like 95% of my job was writing really long SQL. So this is something that I've done a lot of actually. And then nothing else. I was a very early MongoDB user.

[00:04:39]
My very first event that I ever went to for like programming was Mongo days SF. Which that's got to be 2011 probably. What did I put in here? I think I looked it up. I don't remember. It was a long time ago, and it was back before people thought MongoDB was a good idea.

[00:04:58]
So, that should tell you how long ago it was. Now, I've now probably been to like 150 events, it's just funny that was the first one. When I'm not at Microsoft or on Frontend Masters, I try and get away from my keyboard. You can come exercise with me on Peloton I do a lot of Peloton actually did it this morning.

[00:05:18]
So I put my link on to my profile on there. I like Aila scotches, local beers, medium roast coffees, traveling around the world and this little, hazard. [LAUGH] That's my dog, her name's Luna, yeah. And then getting my ass kicked at Dota and Overwatch. As most of the staff at Frontend Masters can attest.

[00:05:38]
I'm pretty bad at both of those. Cool. And lastly, I just always put these in my courses, My favorite charities that I like contributing to are AnnieCannons, The Last Mile, VetsWhoCode, Legal Counsel for Youth and Children. And as always, I always have to thank Frontend Masters for giving me a platform and the opportunity to speak to all of you today.

[00:06:03]
So thanks, Frontend Masters. You guys are the best. And I always dropped my social links in there, Twitter, LinkedIn and GitHub. Feel free to come chat with me. I will tell you that I'm terrible at responding to private messages, especially LinkedIn because I get so many I literally cannot read all of them.

[00:06:20]
But, yeah, feel free to catch up with me on the socials. All right, that's enough about me. Let's stop talking about me, let's start talking about databases.

