[00:00:00]
>> David Khourshid: All right, well, I hope that you all enjoyed this Frontend Masters state workshop. And learned a lot of principles, techniques and patterns that you could use in not only your React applications, but basically any other front end application, or even backend, to improve the way that you manage states.

[00:00:20]
And to improve the way that you make your code understandable and easy to maintain and update, especially as it scales. Again, scale isn't about lines of code or millions of users or things like that. Instead, scale is about how quickly can you iterate on your code base as the number of features increase or get more complex, and how maintainable is your code base, especially as you add more team members and you introduce new tools and new techniques into your code.

[00:00:57]
So we learned a lot today. We went through anti patterns, just common things that you could avoid in React applications. We talked about principles like diagrams and how things like entity relationship diagrams, sequence diagrams and state machines are not only useful for databases or server side applications, but also for front end applications.

[00:01:18]
We did a lot of work on refactoring things into using finite ST states and reducers and we talked about how we could reduce the amount of code that we write by just using the native form data API with forms and using server actions with React 19 using the URL for state so that we could persist the state, and also using third party data fetching libraries like Tanstack Query or React Query so that we could really simplify all of those use states and use effects that we used before.

[00:01:53]
We talked about some painful things like the chaining cascading effects that caused so many problems and how we could use event driven architecture and reducers to really reduce the number of effects that we use. And we talked about other useful things such as using third party state management libraries, normalizing your data so that it is easier to work with the Use Sync external store hook, and of course testing your application logic at the very end.

[00:02:24]
So I hope that you all got a lot from this workshop. Remember, nothing in here is dogmatic. You don't have to refactor your entire applications after this. Instead I want all of these to be tools in your toolbox so that you could simplify your state or make it easier to create new features and just detect problems before they happen.

[00:02:50]
So thank you all very much.

