[00:00:00]
>> Scott Moss: Like I said, this is the last exercise of today. So what I wanna do is spend the last couple of minutes just talking about next steps, how to take this to the next level, what to check out next, how to do further integrations and like kinda where the community is going.

[00:00:14]
So what I always like to do is just talk about some cool packages that kinda relate to all of this. So obviously, Mongoose is like the coolest package in Mongo. Aside from that, there really isn't a lot of cool stuff in Mongo. Mongo is, to be honest, a node.

[00:00:29]
There's some utility libraries and stuff that kinda make sense with Mongoose. But when it comes to kinda doing everything for you, Mongoose takes the cake with that. I can't not think of anything that I cannot live without when it comes to Mongoose and Mongo other that just having Mongoose.

[00:00:45]
So that's that. But specifically around helping you build applications with databases and specifically Node.js, there are a lot of other things out there. So for instance, if you prefer to check out a different ORM or something, Waterline. I don't know why I googled that like it was gonna show, it did, it's number two, wow, okay.

[00:01:08]
Yeah, so Waterline, I guess actually not that active anymore, three months ago, but it used to be a very active package. It's an ORM that works for every database. So not just Mongo, but it works for Postgres, SQL, pretty much everything. And it kinda uses a Mongoose like syntax to do queries.

[00:01:27]
So if you want something a little more flexible, cuz you're using mini databases, you just wanna use one ORM, Waterline's a good one. There used to be a framework back in the day called Sails.js. I don't know if you ever heard of that, it used Waterline, that's what it used.

[00:01:40]
The creator created both of them.
>> Speaker 2: So this works with multiple different, it complies with different databases.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, it works with multiple database and it gives you just one, Mongoose-like. You can see it even has the same syntax, Organization.Create. It's literally the same one.
>> Speaker 2: You treat it as one database, but you have multiples.

[00:01:55]
I know, not completely.
>> Scott Moss: No, not completely. Yeah [LAUGH] gotta be legit though. That's a good idea, we need to collaborate on that [LAUGH]. I like that. But yeah, no it doesn't do that. So yeah, that's one. Other ones include, I can't really think of any amazing stuff in the Mongo world.

[00:02:18]
People don't really make plugins for Mongoose or Mongo, you kinda just, they just don't. You kinda gotta do your own thing. Other cool stuff with just backends and stuff in general, so there's like tons of different backends as a service that kind of help. One in particular that's really cool is called Prisma.

[00:02:37]
Really good team, really good company. Why did I Google that, why, why, why? You never know what you're gonna get when you Google. Right now they're talking about GraphQL and stuff, but they're actually switching over to just not just being GraphQL. But they're really cool, they're basically like a ORM as a service.

[00:02:53]
So if you don't want to like if you're trying to go out, what does that even mean? Yeah, it's a new thing, you got to read the documentation, but the other really cool highly recommend checking them out. It's open source, you can do a lot of things but like I said right now it only works with GraphQL.

[00:03:06]
So if you're doing GraphQL and you just want like a free API for your back-end on your own database, they're really cool for that. A really good one is also pashira io. Really good team out of India and now they are in the Bay area. Super smart team, I talk to the founders all the time.

[00:03:26]
They're very similar to like Prism and stuff where they are like a complete backend as a service. So they host everything for you. They connect to your own Postgres database and do stuff. Really cool backend stuff. I cannot think of anything that stands out from me for Mongoose.

[00:03:46]
I do not use anything other than Mongoose when it comes to my applications for Mongo. There is nothing else that I ever use. Actually, there's something that I wanted to try out, it's called Mongo DB Stitch. This is really cool, actually. So this is serverless Mongo and it's created by the people who made Mongo.

[00:04:06]
We had to build our own version of this at my company. Who here has built an application of lambdas or service functions before? Nobody? Okay, cool so the way that they work the functions they're not long lived processes. They fire then they close and that's it. So databases really weren't built for that.

[00:04:27]
Databases were meant to be on servers that are open and operating forever. So they have everything how databases work for service functions. This is Mongo's answer to that. So it's basically like Firebase but Mongo. That's basically what they're doing. They're competing with Firebase but for Mongo. So you use this on service functions, but looks like they're shooting for is for you to use this directly in your app.

[00:04:48]
So you don't have a server anymore, you just use Mongo right on your web app or your mobile app. And it's very much like Firebase, you create the database from there. And the way that works is because it's all over HTTP. So but they give you like an API basically to hit your database, and your database is on some server somewhere.

[00:05:06]
So it's like this new thing of HTTP based databases, if you will. There's ton of them. This is Mongo's version of it. Seems pretty legit. If I was going to use something like Firebase, I would definitely look at this as a contender. But, yeah, it kind of handles a lot of stuff for you as as far as.

[00:05:23]
It even has functions that you can do in the Cloud. It will do authentication for you. It will do things like Twilio and Stripe. Pretty much do a lot of stuff for you that you don't have to. So, highly recommend for you to check it out and it's obviously built by a really good company.

[00:05:40]
Yep, that's all I got for really cool stuff. As far as going forward and what to learn from here, I highly recommend looking into Mongo 4. Mongo 4 just got released like a couple months ago. Like everybody has been dying for Mongo 4. I highly recommend checking it out and seeing what's new with it because again it made Mongo ACID compliant.

[00:06:06]
And I think because of that a lot of things are going to change in the Mongo world. If it isn't good already, it's going to be really good soon. I highly recommend taking advantage of that. So if you're team is interested in using Mongo but you're like what about transactions and ACID compliancy and all that stuff?

[00:06:20]
Well, it does that now. So, check it out. A lot of cool stuff. No, I don't have any questions.
>> Speaker 3: And pitch your course.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah how did I forget about that? I'm like thinking about cool stuff. I'm not thinking about my course. And also, yeah, so we did a little bit of API stuff here at end with Mongo.

[00:06:43]
I have a course on Frontend Masters.
>> Scott Moss: That talks about that in more detail so.
>> Scott Moss: I should've just typed in my name. Why did I not type my name? Okay so we have the REST & GraphQL, API Design in Node,js v2, so this is like the version two of it.

[00:07:05]
But basically, I go in a little more detail about using Express which is a node API based framework. And in that course we're also going to be using Mongo and it clearly says that here. So you'll be building a REST application with Express and Mongo and then I take it to the next level.

[00:07:20]
And then I show you how to like convert that REST application to GraphQL. And the differences between the two, how they can work side by side, how they can work on top of each other, all of the different things. So you will be touching the whole spectrum of APIs, node, and Express, which is my preferred method.

[00:07:37]
So a lot of the stuff that I am teaching in this course is literally the code that I use every day at my company. This is why I was so excited to teach it because I was like, I just did a whole bunch of code stuff and I wanna share it with everybody.

[00:07:47]
So Mark let me teach it and I appreciate that. Yeah, so check that out. That's a really good next step to go further. And if you haven't used Node before, this is your first time using Node, like I used Mongo today but I haven't really used Node before.

[00:08:00]
Then the course I just taught yesterday is the Intro to Node, check that one out. It will be ready whenever the team gets done with it and posting it but be on the look out for that one. And that one will give you a really good introduction into Node in general.

[00:08:11]
So the only requirement for that is that you know JavaScript that's it. If you know JavaScript you can take that course. Other than that, small plug here. Check out my product, Tipe.io, Manager content, check out the video, I think you'll figure out how it works. Sign up for beta, we'll be releasing soon.

[00:08:31]
All right, well I appreciate everybody coming for the course. And thanks, Mark and the team for having me.
>> [APPLAUSE]

