[00:00:00]
>> Steve Kinney: Other things about task, what else do I have to say? The problem matcher, have I written one these myself? Yes, do I ever want to do it again? No, which is to take all the lines of stuff that come out, parse it to see if you need to deal with it, hope that you never have to write one, right?

[00:00:22]
But again you just have the different groups, this is like, what file is it in, what line, what column, severity and a message? And then anything that matches that Regex will show up in the Problems tab and you can jump to it. Again, most common, unless you have a bespoke test runner or some other bespoke build thing?

[00:00:43]
You can grab one off the shelf, don't do this, and then finally the nice part is you can reuse the same terminal, have a dedicated terminal for that task, you can have it run silently in the background, there's a lot of like. Steps, so, like, so the some of the questions, like, why wouldn't I run this?

[00:01:01]
Like, you could literally just say, start the development server, run in a background tab, I don't even want to see it, right? And you can have the problem matcher there, if there's problems Chauvin, I'll jump to that place in the code, you can, like, when we get to debugging in a second, like, some of that you will get for free, right?

[00:01:17]
That said, I, also, if you look in the terminal, anything that is a file path, like colon, like Like row number, colon number, you can also command click and jump right to as well, right? So like yes to all of those, what else do we need to say about this?

[00:01:42]
We talked about compound tasks and sequence, you can run them in parallel, you can not care if they're not like if they're totally unimpotent. Again, if you need to like wipe out the local SQLite database and run another one, like various things that you can do as well, what else to say about tasks?

[00:02:09]
Like we can play with some of these, but, like, I'll kind of leave this as an exercise because I think watching me run shell commands is, beyond what's sure, very cute to watch. Also but it's the same concept over and over and over again, and you're better off spending time playing with your actual code base to see if there are some productivity gains here.

[00:02:35]
But again, if you're using a TypeScript compiler or Es Lynch or whatever, there are some niceties there as well.

