[00:00:00]
>> Welcome to intermediate TypeScript, I'm Mike North, I'm a Senior Staff Engineer at LinkedIn, and I work in the developer productivity and happiness org. My job is predominantly helping make our COI and our UI ergonomics around developer infrastructure great. And TypeScript is a huge part of that, and that's why I'm a great person to speak to you about TypeScript today.

[00:00:26]
Among the top goals that I have for this course is, number one, I wanna make sure that I package and pass onto you all of the key learnings that I have gained through many hours of helping guide and tutor others around TypeScript. So you're going to see a lot of little pieces of code throughout this course, that you can copy and paste right into your own app, and they can solve some of the common problems that I get a lot of questions about.

[00:00:58]
By the end of this course, I also want you to be able to understand complicated type information. And I'm gonna show you a sample of where we're going to be, by the time this course wraps up. This may look scary right now, but take my word for it, we'll know how to break this down and how to troubleshoot it, and how to understand it, by the time we get through intermediate TypeScript.

[00:01:23]
What should you already know by the time you start to take this course? Well, first, you should have a lot of experience working with regular JavaScript. We're going to be making extensive use of classes, functions, a sync await, promises, so you should be very comfortable working with those concepts.

[00:01:42]
You also should have equivalent knowledge to what we cover in the TypeScript fundamentals of V3 course. In particular, you should be comfortable working with basic types for functions, objects, arrays, and tuples. And you should have crossed the threshold where you understand how generics work, at least with one or two type parameters.

[00:02:07]
And this is something we cover in TypeScript fundamentals V3. Finally, make sure you brush up on index signatures, that's going to be a very important part of some of the more advanced topics that we're going to cover today. It's also worth stating that practical experience will aid you in terms of connecting the concepts were talking about today, to real-world situations.

[00:02:30]
So it's helpful if you've worked in a code base that consumes type information for common libraries like react. We've spent a lot of time making this workshop as easy to use as possible. So, all you're going to need, is this website that we're working on today and the official TypeScript website.

[00:02:54]
We've brought a lot of the features of VS Code right into your browser, so we'll be able to clearly see examples that highlight what's going on. And we'll be able to write our own code, and even write some code to pass some tests. As of the time we're recording this course, I have made four types of courses for Frontend Masters, and the way I think about them is as follows.

[00:03:20]
TypeScript fundamentals and intermediate TypeScript are core courses, and most of our time together is gonna be spent in a lab environment. The idea here is that it's easy to teach these concepts in small controlled examples. And once we turn the light bulbs on, once we understand how things work, that makes it easier to take that knowledge and apply it in a more practical situation, and that's where these electives come into play.

[00:03:47]
Production grade TypeScript and JS TS Monorepos, in those courses, we build an app together step by step. And that's where you can look for the applied techniques and the real world design patterns. We assume, in those courses, that you have already substantial experience working with TypeScript. And this is where you can learn to build things for production and at scale.

