[00:00:00]
>> One of the most I think predominant characteristics of enterprise applications is scale and with scale, become size, which begets performance problems. And I want to take a quick moment to just talk about a tool that the Angular team released to help get or gain insights into how your app is performing and to look for possible bottlenecks, etc.

[00:00:34]
And so you can look on, if you google Angular DevTools they have a pretty comprehensive section about this. And what this allows you to do is to want debug your application if something that's going wrong. It also allows you, I think, the other important part is to do profiling.

[00:01:03]
And so there's a lot of things that you can do in this, so I think probably my to go to kind of plugins when I'm working with Angular is the Redux DevTools for state management but also I have found this particular tool to be valuable as well. So you can just install it from the Chrome Web Store, which I'm in Chrome, but they there's other options depending on your browser.

[00:01:34]
And what you can do is just load your app up. Navigate over to the DevTools tab over here. And let me just create some space in here. So one of the things that I like quite a bit is that it's showing you kind of the the template hierarchy and you're able to kind of drill in and see properties about what you are selecting.

[00:02:13]
So for instance, it's showing you that on this particular form, that if I wanted to see what's actually on it, like the value, which there's nothing right now, but if I were to select it, right in the dev tools, you can inspect the value of this option. So one of the things that I used to do quite a bit was just dump the entire kind of an object onto the page and inspect it.

[00:02:45]
So I would do something like this quite a bit, let's just open up the, Challenge detail component, or rather I wanted the template, but there we go. And let's say something wasn't happening with a form that I wanted it to. So a very, very common technique, which I still occasionally use, but I think the dev tools kind of eliminates the need for this is I come in, proper pre tag in, and then I would essentially dump out, The particular thing that I wanted to inspect, so very, very common for me to do something like this, like the form is not doing what I want, and now I need to, like figure out what's happening.

[00:03:48]
So you can see here it's kind of at the bottom. Then select it, and you can see it, which totally fine it's easy but at the same time now with the dev tools you don't really need to do that anymore because you have the option to kind of go in and select.

[00:04:13]
In this case, I'm looking for the form. And if you go down you can see that it has the form and you can click on the values, and you can see them here. So this is a really nice way to kind of inspect and dig into your Angular application.

[00:04:30]
So I really appreciate the Angular team doing that. Another quite interesting piece is that you can look at the environment hierarchy. And so it's just kind of showing you how this particular thing is wired up. But the element hierarchy so you can actually, I was hoping that would show the, but you can kind of scroll down and see how this is all wired together, which is pretty neat.

[00:05:09]
And the last part that I want to just show in terms of kind of performance management and gaining insight is you can come in and just start to make some changes and different things like this, so we're interacting with it, cancel, etc. Nothing too fancy. And then when you're done you have the ability to kind of step in and look at when you the particular like micro actions within that, like how long did it take and the details around that.

[00:05:55]
So if all of a sudden you're doing something and it's just blowing up that you can say well, what was taking so long? Well, it apparently that when we are interacting with this that the changes for this took about one tenth of a second I believe, or almost 0.9 miliseconds.

[00:06:19]
So very, very fast, but relative to everything else, that was quite a bit. But I would say Angular as a whole is pretty performant. But occasionally, there just are things that happen. Maybe you're not cleaning up an event listener, or something is happening maybe you're not aware of.

[00:06:39]
And this is a great tool for debugging, but also running the application, profiling it, and then using that as a starting point to take that data and go and optimize your web application.

