[00:00:00]
>> Now, to just kind of top off this journey that we've been on, I want to show you a quick deployment example. There are a number of ways to deploy your applications in your API's. I would say that if you want to get more into deployment, enterprise deployments and infrastructure.

[00:00:25]
There's a great course, enterprise cloud infrastructure by Eric Reinhardt. Reinhardt and also very good, he helped and actually generated some terraform for me to reference in this workshop, which I'll put in the companion site. But for the sake of I think brevity and quickness, I'm going to show you the path of least resistance to getting your angular app up into the cloud, and we're gonna do that with for cell.

[00:00:57]
So the one thing that we do need to do, because your deploy will fail, which is a good thing. If your application is outside of some parameters, is in this case, with NX, we have production budgets, and it's saying we do not want our, application to be bigger than a meg.

[00:01:21]
And so if it was bigger than that, it would throw an error. So what we're gonna do since we kind of take this off with the wizard, which I think is amazing, we are going to kind of end with the wizard. And so imagine you are going to a dinner party, and you want to show off the wizard and how clever you are, well, you're not gonna take your laptop with you, that doesn't fit into your pocket.

[00:01:48]
So what do you do? Well, we deploy it. So the first thing we're gonna do is go into our project.json in our wizard app, and we just need to scroll down to production budgets, and we're gonna bump this up to 10. We'll go ahead and save this. Now, the next thing that we're gonna do is we're gonna hop over to for cell, and you can log in using your GitHub credentials which I recommend.

[00:02:22]
And then once you're logged in, we're going to go Add New, Project. And because I've logged in using my GitHub credentials and now has access to my projects and obviously want to go with enterprise the apps. So I'm gonna import, and we're gonna give this a project name of Workshop Wizard.

[00:02:47]
Then we need to set a few additional parameters for this build to work. So let's go down to Build and Output Settings. We're gonna override the build command in the output directory. This is largely in part because we're dealing with a large monorepo with many projects. You could actually create a deployment for each individual project, and then connect those all together.

[00:03:19]
I think kind of at the end of conceptually where you could go with this is the talk that we had about microfrontends, you could absolutely deploy everything into Vercel or into the cloud and load those in that way. So we need to update the build command to add to NX run, wizard build, and the output directory, which you can get if you go back to your project.

[00:03:52]
And you just need to find where this is located, and so we'll just copy relative path, and we'll just paste this in here. So dist Toulon wizard browser in this case. And now we're just going to click Deploy. So apparently, I've done this one too many times. So let me just go back real quick and delete one of these.

[00:04:28]
I should have brought my credit card is what should have happened. So we'll fill out enterprisey workshop apps. So we're just gonna kind of redo this workshop wizard. Sounds like a Who song or whoever did that pinball wizard. And so now this is going to deploy. This will take just a little bit, possibly two minutes give or take.

[00:04:54]
It just depends on who's streaming or who's mining Bitcoin, if for sell at any given day. I'm totally kidding, but possibly go get a drink of water, take a bio break, but this is going to download all of our dependencies and then run that build script, all right?

[00:05:19]
We have a successful build. So from this dashboard here, you can actually just click on the app and here everything is, and we now have a wizard deployed in the cloud to help you do enterprise angular development, and I think that is pretty neat.

