[00:00:00]
>> I would challenge every one of you and everybody online, I love you, I haven't forgot about you, that if you were to go through this application and start looking it like, where am I starting to see patterns, these repeating patterns within the test? What does that pattern mean?

[00:00:32]
When I look at the services and the state management and the different things, where are these patterns emerging? And when you understand the patterns, then you can apply it to other things in meaningful ways. So does anybody here, somebody last thought, know what a 12-bars blues progression is, right?

[00:01:02]
That if you've ever listened to blues, it's just one of the most, like I can hear it a mile away. Is that I don't have to understand exactly every note that they're playing, to know what they're doing, is that because it is a conventional pattern and a form of kind of structured musical expression that I don't even need to know what key they're in.

[00:01:36]
I just know that if they start on the one or the tonic, then in four measures they're going to the four, then back to the one, then the five then the fourth and the one. And if you know how to listen for that 12-bar blues progression, you'll start to hear everywhere.

[00:01:56]
One of my favorite songs, I think one of my favorite blues songs, is What Did I Say by Ray Charles, and it's got this little funky Rhodes piece. It's 12-bar blues and it's awesome, but that's what he built it on. Is he took something that's incredibly simplistic and built something amazing on it.

[00:02:19]
And in a way, this is what I hope that we've accomplished today, is that we start thinking about simple basic patterns very much like a 12-bar blues scale. And we use that to create amazing things and express ourselves in code to not only make a difference in our lives, the companies that we work for, but ultimately the people that we love and care for, and that's why, at least, I program.

[00:03:00]
And so, this concludes our journey into Enterprise Angular apps. I would say, at least for this iteration, I definitely recommend checking out the Companion site and continue to check out everything that's on Frontend Masters. But just to quickly summarize what we've learned and where we've gone and where we're going.

[00:03:25]
We talked about Angular development in the context of the enterprise. And to clarify, that enterprise does not necessarily mean advanced or complicated. What it does mean is that you're developing at scale which informs your decisions about how you organize your code and your projects, so that a large amount of people can consume your applications and a large team can work on them.

[00:03:55]
And so with that said, we led off with domain-driven design, and just understanding the domain that is absolutely critical that you have an API contract in place. Then we talked about monorepos and how to organize your projects in a way that there's cohesion without coupling. And then we discussed micro frontends and how you can use a host application to load in a number of remote applications, which is really, it's really kinda changed the game about how we can upgrade legacy apps, how we can introduce new features into existing applications.

[00:04:38]
And it's very, very exciting stuff. And from there we talked about reactive architecture, state management, unit testing, end-to-end testing, and measuring kind of performance and how to do that, and then deployment. The goal of this entire arch is so that you have the tools in a playbook to conceptualize a feature and then turn that into an entire application, and how to organize that, how to do it.

[00:05:12]
And so I think everything that we've done here is the things that I use every day, and I believe that you can apply these techniques and possibly go make a billion dollars, and I support you in that endeavor. But thank you for being here, thank you for learning with me.

[00:05:30]
It means the world to me that you've spent this time with me. And with that, please go build awesome stuff.
>> [APPLAUSE]

