[00:00:00]
>> Let's do another challenge, and I would like for everybody to generate not only the data, but the state, so do it exactly the same way. Generate the service and then when we get back, we are going to do something fun. So just a few simple commands, they're all in on the site, or.

[00:00:43]
Bonus time, it's Christmas. I can't believe I forgot to tell, I was so excited about this. If you go into the root of this project, there is some snippets that I've put in here that this alone was worth the price of admission, I thought the Template Wizard was cool.

[00:01:09]
But if you are looking for somewhat opinionated snippets for you to pull out into use, you're welcome. All right, so we're gonna generate the data and the state lives and generate the data service for your entity. Any questions?
>> On that we made at the start on interfaces?

[00:01:33]

>> Was that? One that we made and-
>> So ideally, whatever we defined in the interface, we're going to build some semblance of a future slice and some functionality around that by the end of the day. So a lot of the CLI stuff is just, it comes down to just memorizing, or at least becoming familiar with the API.

[00:01:57]
But I could run this command if you gave me a list of twenty entities, in fact, I'll just show it to you real quick. The reason why I'm not doing it today is because there's this a sync error that kind of blows up. The idea is all these commands, you can stack these all together and just drop them into a shell script.

[00:02:28]
And just feature domain modeling or domain models, and generate your entire application, and go home for lunch and then go play golf because you've just done the work of six developers, circa 1997. Who am I kidding? 2014, so, for all my government employee friends over here, I just gave you the key to the golf kingdom.

[00:02:59]
Yeah, just value, just that's what I'm here for. All right, lemme just jump into these commands real quick. So, NPX, NX, because I don't have NX installed globally. Generating a library, I'm calling it workshops data, and I'm putting it into the leaves workshop data directory. I'm doing standalone false because it generates, when they moved and I'll talk about this a little bit later, but angular is moving to a stand alone API.

[00:03:39]
Which is moving away from modules and it's now becoming component and route centric. But in the case of what, if you're generating a service you can inject right into route and you don't need a module at all. You don't need anything, and so, if I'm generating a service, I typically do it standalone false and I just throw everything away.

[00:04:05]
So, project name and root format. So as provided, a lot of this, so just kind of a pro tip, I will do other things for periods of time. And so, I'll sit down, and it's like, I haven't actually touched NX in a while, maybe eight weeks or something.

[00:04:30]
And because it is dynamic, the API has changed. And so, I will spend a lot of time just kinda poking around and just finding and working out the secret handshake. Now, in Visual Studio Code and now in IntelliJ products, you can actually install NX Console, which is kind of the equivalent of ClickOps.

[00:04:58]
I prefer working command line, but just to see what's happening, that's a great tool. So, pretty simple here, we're just gonna pretend to, this is probably gonna blow up because I already have it, yep. So, I think we get the point though. It's commands, turtles, all the way down.

