[00:00:00]
>> Erik Reinert: If you want to tear everything down really quickly, Fantastic. Perfect timing. Right as I finish provisioning, there's going to be two things you really need to do. Let me just make sure that the pipeline's not also running in the background. Okay, cool. All right, so if you wanna tear down really fast, there's gonna be a couple of things you're gonna wanna make sure to check.

[00:00:17]
The first thing you're going to want to check is you're going to want to go to App Runner, right? And you're going to want to make sure that you delete all the applications in App Runner. So if you go to App Runner, I deleted all of mine. But make sure you go in App Runner, check the box of each application that you deployed.

[00:00:33]
If you deployed more than one, click delete and delete them. So App Runner is gonna be one of the places you're gonna wanna go. Another place you're going to want to go is ssm. Remember on day one, we created parameters in SSM as well. So you're going to want to make sure to go to the parameter store in here.

[00:00:51]
Go to /fem/. You only need to delete the FEM FD service ones because the Terraform ones created them automatically. Those will get destroyed with Terraform Destroy, but you will want to at least make sure you delete these three. Those are there. Outside of that, everything else is in Terraform Destroy.

[00:01:12]
So you just run Terraform Destroy and you're good. That's all the Amazon stuff. The only other thing you'd have to be worried about is Supabase. You just go to Supabase, click on FEM FD Service, go to Project Settings, Delete, Project, and there you go. You are done. Ecr.

[00:01:34]
Ecr. Yeah, yeah, good call. ECR as well. ECR, we manually created the image. So if we go to ECR, you'll see that you can just click on them right here, click Delete, Delete and it's gone. So, yeah, that should be everything. Yeah, and then again, Terraform Destroy [LAUGH] make sure to run terraform destroy.

[00:01:53]
That's the one you really want to make sure you run. So run Terraform Destroy for sure. Especially if you created multiple environments. So if you're nervous like, did I get everything or not? You can go to Cost Viewer or Cost Explorer, and in here it will show you exactly what you're getting charged for.

[00:02:11]
I mean, you're going to see my terrible charges. But all you have to do is scroll down and you could see exactly what you're getting charged for, where it might be, and then you can just navigate to that part of the console and delete whatever's there. So, yeah, at the end of the day, if you want to make sure you're not getting any costs you're not expecting, go in here, check it out, and you should be able to find what you're looking for.

