[00:00:00]
>> Erik Reinert: What did we do, right? So we proposed different scenarios, right? I think you fully understand that now. And you see the scenarios that we went through, right? We evaluated multiple solutions. You didn't just come out of this course building one deployment. You started somewhere and then you went through the process of building out that deployment all the way till a much larger scale, or at least what would be a much larger scale, right?

[00:00:25]
We iterated over existing changes. I showed you guys how to start in one place and then kind of move to the right so that you're not blocking developer's productivity and any other things like that. And then once you've done that, you kind of move back over to the left so that they can continue working over here, but then you can keep moving forward as well as reusing things you've already created.

[00:00:46]
We already had GitHub actions. We already had AWS credentials in GitHub actions, so we could reuse GitHub actions to run Terraform as well as our deployments have more automation and more benefits to what we're building. Yeah, and we adapted for future scenarios. So one thing to note is every step of the phases that we went through was just a preparation for the next step.

[00:01:13]
You start out on App Runner running some SSM and that prepares you for the next step of like, okay, let's get some automation and some CI and some CD, right? That's kind of the evolution of it. And then eventually you go like, all right, we're gonna take ownership over this now.

[00:01:28]
We're gonna keep taking on future problems, but keep making sure we adapt for future solutions as well, right? And I think you can see how we built that path of, okay, we can start here, but it won't be terrible to get here when we want to in the future, right?

[00:01:48]
So what did we learn? How to approach, again, how to approach different scenarios. I think this is when I first started thinking about this course and the things I hear often on stream or other people asking me, it's not so much, how do I build this one cluster or whatever.

[00:02:05]
It's more like, how do I gain experience? And so what you experienced over the last two days is really what you would deal with normally at the day and day job, building and learning how to grow something. You learned how to make impactful decisions as well. I definitely feel like you are all much more confident now in at least being able to say like, okay, maybe this isn't a good decision yet.

[00:02:26]
Maybe this is how you can actually help and impact the business part of the company. How to grow a managing infrastructure, again, we started in start-up, moved through growth all the way to scale. You got to see the application kind of live in multiple scenarios as it got lifted up higher and higher into its new and its final destination.

[00:02:49]
And then, yeah, how to manage deployment strategies. You saw how we can deploy directly from CI to an instance. We showed how you can use AWS to trigger tasks and run them remotely. We showed how you can deploy on main versus deploy on prod. Right, so there's a lot of options with how you can do stuff.

[00:03:13]
And one other thing to note, you don't have to use a prod branch. For example, if you're like, you know what, let's use tags, right, then you could just say, okay, listen on tags and when tags run, then run the deploy branch or run the deploy job, right?

[00:03:28]
There's not a lot of limitations here, you can kinda do whatever you want. So those strategies I hope are helpful when you're trying to move in the future. I do build things on the Internet. Like I said, that's my personal GitHub. That's my company's GitHub, where all the other course information and stuff exists, my Twitch, YouTube, Twitter, and engineering blog.

[00:03:50]
But yeah, thank you guys so much. Again, part of this job is there's tons of information out there and I'm really glad that you listened, so thank you. I appreciate it.
>> Students: [APPLAUSE]

