[00:00:03]
>> Scott Moss: So yeah once you check that out, let me go ahead and check out here. You should have lesson one and then if you take a look around here. Let me make this a little bigger, can never be too big. If we look inside of, first of all, take a look around the app if you want.

[00:00:16]
Obviously there's a lot of stuff here that's going to be filled out. That way, we can progress through the course at a reasonable pace here. But if you take a look inside of source, index.js, you'll see some stuff here. Basically, what we're doing here is, and this is something I didn't do on V1, is that we're gonna build this up using Webpack.

[00:00:38]
I know people are thinking why don't we use webpack on the server side? Trust me, we're gonna build this out with webpack. One that's gonna, everybody to use the latest features, like imports and ES6 imports and all the latest and greatest if you want a different version of node.

[00:00:51]
And two we get to use hot module reloading on the server side, which is pretty cool. Which is a way better process of the like node mod which just refreshes the server and doesn't keep state. So this allows us to keep state in the app, like if you have a cache something like that, it'll just replace the module at run time and then it's there.

[00:01:09]
So we're gonna use that. So you're gonna ignore all this stuff here, we can talk more about how you set up module hot reloading later, but basically what you're gonna do, your objective is in the index.js, this is where I wanna start my server. So this app right here is going to be the server.

[00:01:30]
This is going to be the express app that I showed here. This is the express app and you can see I'm listed to it on port 3000. Inside of here I wanna go ahead and actually start that server. This app is gonna be that express app, so that's all I wanna do.

[00:01:45]
And then inside of server.js, we actually need to make app something up, right now it's just no. It's literally nothing, so we need to make it an express app. So if you look at the example that I have here you can see how one might go about doing that, but basically, app needs to be an express app.

[00:02:01]
Go ahead and set up a hello world route on index that does something, so you can at least check it out.
>> Scott Moss: And then you need to go ahead and listen to that server inside of index, somewhere here, whatever port you want, whatever port you have open. There's some ports you can't use, but you'll figure it out if you type it in.

[00:02:25]

>> Scott Moss: And that's all this example is. So what we're gonna do is, what time is it now? It is it's almost ten, so let's save this one. This one's not gonna take too long. So let's come back at 10:15 and then we'll go over it. Cool, I'll leave this up here.

