[00:00:01]
>> Jem Young: And when we size a server it's called a VPS, that's a Virtual Private Server. Again because when you're manipulating it, it looks like you have an entire server to yourself but in reality you just have a chunk of a box, of a piece of a server. And I can pay five bucks a month and you get a chunk of a server rather than having to run an entire server.

[00:00:20]
And this is only possible through the advantages of the way of threading and process isolation and honestly operating systems have got better about having different processes running at the same time. And we'll talk more about that tomorrow when we talk about containers and why they are game changers in terms of VPSs and how we wholly run things.

[00:00:39]
But for today, just the basics, we're not gonna get too complicated. So today what we're gonna need is we're gonna need to buy the VPS. So essentially we're gonna buy server time. Fortunately, unlike last time, I have my referral link in here. So if you use this DigitalOcean referral link.

[00:00:58]
You have to put in your credit card. But what you get is you get $50 in free credits, and that's enough to run your server for ten months for free. So last time, I felt bad cuz you had spend like five bucks or something to run a server.

[00:01:11]
You'll get free credits, and I get free credits so it's kind of a win win. So go ahead and go to DigitalOcean and I'll walk you through kind of which server you wanna buy exactly what's happening. And if you already have a server running, probably buy another one because we want a fresh server on the right installation.

[00:01:31]
If you're on an old version of Ubuntu or Fedora or something like that, commands are gonna be a little bit different. I'm going to go to DigitalOcean.
>> Jem Young: DigitalOcean account, I logged in.
>> Jem Young: So I'll give you a minute to walk through the sign up. When you get through the sign up, and if you don't already have an account, you'll be presented with a screen like that.

[00:01:58]
We'll actually call, I'm gonna start a new project. You don't have to do this, it's just for my sake.
>> Jem Young: Stack front end to.
>> Jem Young: It's okay, it's educational purposes.
>> Jem Young: So now hopefully you're all set up on DigitalOcean account. Putting credit card, giving some free credits. I'll be getting some free credits more importantly.

[00:02:34]
And if you're wondering why choose DigitalOcean as the host and provider cuz there's a lot of them there. There's AWS, there's Azure, there's lots of different types of hosts. I choose DigitalOcean because, to me, it has the cleanest UI and the simplest UI. For example, this is AWS for my website, it's hosted.

[00:02:53]
So if you go to AWS you're like, what? What do I do now? And you're like, I need to use an EC2 because EC2 is their virtual servers. So you have to know that ahead of time. And then you're like now I wanna start an EC2 incidence, what do I wanna do?

[00:03:10]
You click launch incidence, I don't get this. So for learning I wouldn't say AWS is the best place to go. It's a bit more powerful and AWS has more features than DigitalOcean. But for learning we're using DigitalOcean. That's why, give you my reasoning yet things. So what we wanna do is get started with the Droplets.

[00:03:31]
So just click Get Started with a Droplet, they will start animation. And now you have to choose an image. An image is a copy of a base OS. So a baseline operating system and baseline different types of CPU compute. You don't have to create a project, you can just create a droplet if you wanna also click Create droplet.

[00:03:54]
A droplet is their idea is stick with an easy to use the VPS. That part doesn't matter but good question, Anwar. And anybody watching this in their screen doesn't quite look like this. Dissolution may change up their UI. I don't know they could be running AB test for all I know.

[00:04:10]
But don't worry about that. Just listen to kind of the baseline of what we're saying and just follow along. Cuz again, DigitalOcean they have a nice UI, it's nice and shiny. What we wanna choose is we wanna choose Ubuntu, which is going to be the default one chosen.

[00:04:23]
And we wanna make sure we're on the LTS version and not the one above and not the one below, because the commands will work slightly differently depending on the version of Ubuntu.

