[00:00:00]
>> Instead of what we've been doing, which is where I've been intentionally 404ing the site so that I can see a list of the blog posts, let's actually build a list of blog posts on the homepage, so that we can see what's been written and show the latest posts.

[00:00:12]
So I'm gonna come back out here, refresh. I wanna show down here a list of my latest posts. So first, let's figure out how to get that. So I'm gonna go back into the graph qL and I want all Mdx nodes, okay that part's good. But let's turn this part off for now.

[00:00:32]
And let's get a few things that we need. So the first and foremost, we want the id. Whenever you're querying for making a list in Gatsby, it's worth grabbing the id, because you're probably gonna need to set a key, if you're iterating over these fields in react, if you wanna look up the posts, the id is the thing that's guaranteed to be the same.

[00:00:52]
So it's a consistent thing to grab. So grab that id. I also want the slug of the post, and then out of the front matter, I wanna be able to show the title, and I wanna show the date. Now let's see, we want the description for sure. And then let's get the date.

[00:01:08]
And let's do that like relative time. That should be everything we need to build a blog role. So from here I can make a list of here are my posts. And then you know what else we should do? Let's actually sort these. So, I'm gonna sort by the date.

[00:01:28]
So here I've checked fields, and this is one of the purple ones. I know the contrast is low here, and I apologize about that. But under fields, we can choose one of these and I want front matter and you see these underscores indicate that it's one of the fields inside of front matter.

[00:01:43]
So we want the date, and I wanna order it by descending. So the most recent post first, right? And if I change that to ascending, it would show me the oldest blog at the top of the list. So we're gonna go descending. So now we've got an ordered list of our posts that for now, we're just gonna make it everything and because I want this to be a unique name, we'll call it get blog posts.

[00:02:10]
And I'm gonna copy this. And now we can use it, right? So we've got a list of these. So I'm gonna go into the homepage. And let's use a static query again. We'll get our data. Do a tagged template literal graph qL and inside we can paste our query.

[00:02:44]
So, now that we've got that, we have data and that's gonna contain all of our Mdx posts. So we can pull those out by, we'll just put them into a variable so it's easier for us to reason about we'll get posts, and that's gonna be data.allMdx.nodes. Because again, the way that this works is, we go data is the query, and then we have the query name, so all Mdx.

[00:03:11]
So data.allMdx.nodes and then each post is gonna have id slug and frontmatter with the details that we need. Then down in here, I want to create a second level heading and we'll say check out my recent blog posts. And let's make a list out of it. So we'll do an unordered list.

[00:03:34]
And inside of the unordered list, we're gonna do a posts.map of each post. And for each of these, we're going to return a list item, and that list item's gonna have a key of the post.id, and inside of it I want to use that link component to the post.slug.

[00:03:59]
And so the post slug is here, that's the actual URL, right? And then we're going to link to post.frontmatter.title. And then I wanna show when it was written, so we'll do like a small tag, and we'll say it was posted post.frontmatter.date. Okay, so it will add that space for us so that we can break it across two lines.

[00:04:37]
All right, so this is good. This should work. Let's go check it out. See how we did. Hey, hey, look at that. Okay, so now we have on our homepage, a heading and the ability to get into our post. And so now we can actually navigate this post, right?

[00:04:52]
So this is where Gatsby really starts to shine, because we added this data in, and because it's predictably in our graph qL layer, all the things that we learned for like querying metadata still apply when we wanna get Mdx data, right? It feels very predictable. The things we're doing are the same.

[00:05:15]
We're gonna go to graphical, we're gonna build a query, we're gonna copy paste that query into our component, and then we use that data. So you'll start to see like these are the patterns that'll carry you through all of your Gatsby builds. It's really nice, really powerful, you'll get a lot of mileage out of it.

[00:05:32]
So why don't we commit our work there, because we're gonna shift over and start talking about images.

