[00:00:00]
>> Alright, so first and foremost, what we're gonna do is we're going to clone this project. And so the way that we're gonna clone this project, I'm gonna use the GitHub CLI. I love the GitHub CLI. I'm a huge fan of, So, I'm gonna start by using let's see, I'm using what version 1.2.1 of the the GitHub CLI if you've never used it, it's at seelye.github.com.

[00:00:25]
And this thing is incredibly powerful. You don't have to use it. You can absolutely do everything that we're doing today without the GitHub COI. I've just found that it cuts out a lot of steps. It removes the need to jump through the GitHub UI and click a bunch of buttons and copy paste things around.

[00:00:41]
So we can go real fast. And so what we're going to do today is we're going to fork J Lang store, front end, masters intro to Gatsby project. So this what I want you to run. Now I've already built this project. So I'm not actually gonna fork, but I want you to fork it because you're gonna want to deploy this later on, and you need to own the repo to deploy it.

[00:01:12]
That's me forgetting how this works. It's gonna be GitHub repo fork. So, the command you're gonna run is actually repo fork like this. And I'm gonna run a clone. Okay, so once we're in soups, intro to Gatsby project. Inside, there's not a lot here. So let's open this up in VS code And we can take a look at what's in this file.

[00:01:47]
So, all that we have in here right now, and let's just make sure we're running on node 16.6.1 today. If you don't have node 16, it's okay. We're using that for this project. I think Gatsby requires node 14 it might be node 12. If you have nvm, You can just do like nvm use 16 or nvm install 16 to get the latest version.

[00:02:19]
And I've installed you can see here there's an nvmrc. So if you're in this folder and you just write nvm use, it's going to grab that nvmrc, and install it and in enable that one. We've got a package README, that's just a couple of notes. The package JSON, as you can see here.

[00:02:40]
It's got the standard things you would expect the name, version are private. So that we don't accidentally publish this as an NPM package, cuz it doesn't make sense to do with a Gatsby site. Description, author keywords, you can edit those if you want. And then we have our dependencies down here.

[00:02:57]
So at its bare minimum Gatsby relies on Gatsby, react and react Dom. So we're going to be relying on Gatsby react and react Dom. This is the latest version of Gatsby as of today, we're gonna be using react 17. These are the latest versions. And this is what's at the core of a Gatsby site.

[00:03:18]
Then we get some scripts, these scripts are just lined up with the Gatsby ci commands. So develop is what we're gonna use most of the time. That's the kinda the core. As you're building a Gatsby site, you end up running NPM run developer NPM run, start. When we're ready to build, we can build the site.

[00:03:36]
If we want to test our built site, we can serve it. And if something goes weird and it doesn't feel right, we can run clean, and that'll delete the cache and public files that are the generated files from Gatsby. You should rarely need to do this, cleaning is not a common thing.

[00:03:56]

>> This graph qL is.
>> No graph qL is not supposed to be a dependency because it is built into Gatsby, which is a choice like it's great until it's not. This is again one of those things where if you find yourself working against the nature of Gatsby and you're installing a different version of graph qL and you're trying to manage a bunch of stuff, it can get a little tricky.

[00:04:21]
But Gatsby bundles all of that for you so that you don't have to install a whole bunch of stuff. It specifically doesn't include react and react Dom inside of Gatsby, because that would be chaos. Like the whole react ecosystem relies on react and react Dom not being bundled.

[00:04:37]
So this is why these ones are external, and graph qL and everything else is inside of Gatsby. In addition to that, we've got our lock file. We all know lock file is just a way for NPM to keep track of what versions are installed. We've got a prettier RC.

[00:04:56]
This is mostly just so that you don't get unexpected formatting changes if you start editing this repo. I don't care about your code formatting preferences. So if you wanna edit this to be your way, feel free. It's mostly just so that you don't get surprised code changes. We looked at the nvmrc, the git ignore is just getting rid of node modules which we don't want to track and get dot cache is a Gatsby internal folder.

[00:05:21]
You don't need to look in this folder but Gatsby will generate it as part of the develop and build processes to it will like. Put temporary files in there, it'll keep versions of images and different optimizations that it does, they will live in that cache folder. And then all of that intermediate stuff gets finalized and put into public.

[00:05:43]
And again, this is a generated folder, which is why we don't wanna track it in git. And then this is a helper that if we're using nullify stuff, so we'll leave that one in there. And then finally, the only source code we have in here is actually images.

[00:05:56]
So these images, I didn't want you all to have to go and find images. So we're just gonna make these available from the get go. And we will work with these a little bit later in the project. So, at this point I hope everybody has their fork of the repo ready, if you don't know how to fork or don't have the CLI, you can also just fork right here.

[00:06:19]
Just click this button and you will fork the repo.

