[00:00:00]
>> So welcome to Advanced Web Performance. We are going to cover a lot of stuff. So I hope you're ready for, hope that your brain is empty right now so you can get a lot of information about how to make the web faster. My name is Maximiliano. I can go by Max.

[00:00:18]
I know it's a long name. I'm Firt on social networks. I'm a mobile web developer. So I have been doing web development since 95 and mobile apps as well. And in terms of web performance in particular, I've been working with web performance for 13 years. So I have started doing web performance, specifically targeting mobile devices back in 2009, 2010, and then focused on more general web performance as well.

[00:00:48]
I have authored a couple of books. Some of those books are on web performance. And also I have published many workshops on different topics around mobile development, app development, mobile app development and web performance. I'm from Argentina. I'm currently living in Buenos Aires, okay, so that's far away for most of you.

[00:01:11]
I don't know where you are, but typically Argentina is far from all the other countries. Anyway, I said firt.dev is my website, @firt my Twitter account. Regarding specifically talking about web performance, these are the latest two books that I authored on the topic, High Performance Mobile Web and Hacking Web Performance, that by the way, a gift for you.

[00:01:35]
You will get a copy of the second one, that's actually the last one, Hacking Web Performance later in PDF. So we will go over also the stuff that is actually on that book. So, prerequisites, you can go and clone that repo, github.com/firtman, that's my last name, /adv from advanced, -webperf.

[00:02:03]
There you will find just a simple website that we will use later, to actually see in action, part of the things that we will cover about web performance. You have a copy of the slides in case you want to follow along. And also you have a copy of that book that I promised, okay, that for future reference.

[00:02:21]
We are not going to go over the book today. So I have basically two goals today, okay? The first one is to teach you some new tricks that you didn't know about web performance, that's my first goal. And the second goal, and probably the most important one, is I want to make you feel bad about what you are doing and what you have been doing so far.

[00:02:47]
Okay, so remember that go. So we are going to cover a couple of things. We're going to start with the problem, so why web performance is important. Metrics, so how metrics work, where are the metrics available today, how to measure performance? The tools available, some of the tools, there are many tools that we will focus on.

[00:03:08]
The tools that we have available in the browser, open source tools, free tools. There are also more tools that are more commercial. Charts and diagrams, then we will get into understanding browsers because we will get advanced in this course. That means that we need to understand how browsers work to actually understand why I will go into apply some techniques.

[00:03:32]
We are going to over, even if this is an advanced training, we will go over the basic ideas anyway, the basic optimizations and why, to start. And then we will push this further, I'm talking about performance, we will push this further. We'll, some kind of hacking tips. We're going to see how to hack performance with a lot of ideas.

[00:03:54]
And then at the end, we will cover a couple of performance APIs, probably not all of them. But I will give you a quick overview, and then you will have all the information to get deeper on other APIs as well. When we are talking about APIs, I'm talking mostly about front-end APIs or JavaScript APIs.

[00:04:12]
There are some exceptions there that are also working with your back-end, but most of the time it's about the front-end.

