[00:00:01]
>> I am so excited to be here physically standing in front of you all [LAUGH] it's like a dream come true after the last couple years. Hello, we are here to talk about Data Visualization First Steps. Hi, I'm Angana Vakil, I am a senior developer advocate at Hisura and an Observable Ambassador and former member of the Observable team.

[00:00:23]
So today we're gonna be working through some materials and these slides also as observable notebooks, so you can find all of the course materials on observablehq.com. If you go to the URL you see here which I think just got pasted into the chat as well observablehq.com/@ anjana/data-visualization-first-steps you will find these slides.

[00:00:47]
And if you click, you should see at the top here a little of square icon that says Data Visualization First Steps, when you click that, you should see a sidebar open, with all of the other materials. Including the overview which you already saw, on frontend masters, and the different project worksheets that we'll be working through.

[00:01:10]
So we're gonna be doing all of our work in the browser today and Observable and I'm gonna explain later how, how that all works. Observable is this in browser coding environment that makes data visualization really quick and easy, so that's why we are gonna be using it today.

[00:01:26]
And yeah, as we go, I will explain everything you need to know about Observable. You don't need an Observable account to do the workshop today, but if you would like to sign up for one so that you can save your work, come back to it later, you are totally welcome to do so.

[00:01:45]
Okay, so first of all, yes again, I am Anjana, I am visiting here in Minneapolis from San Francisco where I'm based. And my experience with data visualization, really, I guess started a couple of years ago when I joined Observable and I learned a lot about how data visualization can be really helpful for us as developers.

[00:02:10]
So that's kind of what brings me to the field and that's what I'm gonna be sharing with you all. So a couple of years ago was really pretty brand new to the database space and was taking my first steps. And so that is kind of the journey I would like to take you along with me on today.

[00:02:26]
We're gonna be exploring some basic fundamentals of databases which hopefully will stand us in really good shape to go on and continue deepening our learning. With things like the really awesome D3 courses, that folks like Charlie Wu have put out on Frontend Masters

